Citation: Singh, S.; Kshtriya, S.;
Valk, R. Health, Hope, and Harmony:
A Systematic Review of the
Determinants of Happiness across
Cultures and Countries. Int. J.
Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20,
3306. https://doi.org/10.3390/
ijerph20043306
Academic Editor: Rebeca
Robles-García
Received: 11 December 2022
Revised: 3 February 2023
Accepted: 4 February 2023
Published: 13 February 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
International  Journal  of 
Environmental Research
and Public Health
Review
Health, Hope, and Harmony: A Systematic Review
of the Determinants of Happiness across Cultures
and Countries
Sunitha Singh 1
 , Sowmya Kshtriya 2,*
 and Reimara Valk 3
1 Centre for Entrepreneurship and Innovation, American University in Dubai,
Dubai 28282, United Arab Emirates
2 Department of Psychology, Montclair State University, Montclair, NJ 07043, USA
3 School of Business and Management, American University in Dubai, Dubai 28282, United Arab Emirates
* Correspondence: kshtriyas1@montclair.edu
Abstract: The aim of this study was to review the literature on what constitutes happiness across
cultures and countries to advance scholarly knowledge on the happiness construct. A systematic
review was conducted to examine the determinants of happiness in samples across cultures and
countries. Five different databases, including APA PsycNet, EBSCO-Academic, EBSCO-Business,
Project MUSE, and Google Scholar, grey literature, and in-text references from relevant review articles
were used. A total of 155 articles were included in the review, encompassing studies from over
100 countries and 44 cultures. Myriad determinants of happiness were found that were placed
into three broad categories labeled Health, Hope, and Harmony. The predominant happiness
determinants were mental, emotional, and physical well-being, a purposeful holistic work–life
balance, nurturing social relationships, caring for self and others, and being in harmony with one’s
culture, traditions, community, religion, and environment. This study engendered an “Integrated
Model of the Determinants of Happiness” to provide a universally applicable conceptualization of
the happiness construct. By examining studies on determinants of happiness across the globe in the
past 90 years, this review uncovered that happiness constitutes multiple determinants that fall under
three major categories: ‘Health’, ‘Hope’, and ‘Harmony’.
Keywords: happiness; health; hope; harmony; environment; public health
1. Introduction
“Happiness is the meaning and the purpose of life, the whole aim, and the end of
human existence”. The ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle said these words more than
2000 years ago, and they still ring true today. In Aristotle’s Nicomachean Ethics, happiness
is described as the human good that we all aim for its sake alone, and Freud emphasized
that happiness is something we strive towards, desire to attain, and maintain throughout
our lives [1–3]. The 1776 U.S. Declaration of Independence states that all men have a right
to “the pursuit of happiness,” where the notion of happiness is equated to the attainment
of a worthy life [4].
Moreover, the concept of happiness is gaining increasing popularity within and across
cultures [5–7], so much so that in recent years, there has been a shift in measuring economic
production to measuring happiness as an indicator of social development and individual
welfare across nations [8].
Since the advent of the ﬁeld of positive psychology in the late 1990s, scientiﬁc inves-
tigations have uncovered happiness as an essential psychological ingredient for optimal
human functioning that makes life worth living [ 9]. Happiness is conceptualized as an
appraisal of life [ 8], a state of mind [ 6], a psychological state [ 5], and a positive health
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph20043306 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/ijerph
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 2 of 68
indicator [8], and is synonymous with subjective well-being [7,9]. All in all, happiness has
been deﬁned in various ways.
Happiness as overall satisfaction with life: Happiness has been conceptualized as
an evaluation of life [8], as overall satisfaction with everyday life [10], and as the overall
quality of one’s life [11].
Happiness resulting from positive experiences and positive outcomes: Traditionally,
happiness has been deﬁned by the experience of more frequent positive affective states
than negative ones [12]. Happiness is more than just a personally important goal or a set
of pleasant mood states [13], and is related to, precedes, and causes a variety of favorable
life outcomes [14]. Furthermore, across studies, happiness has been deﬁned as a positive
subjective experience [15].
Happiness as a psychological state of mind, and well-being: Studies have also deﬁned
happiness as a psychological state [5], a state of mind [6], a “state of being” [ 16], a positive
attitude toward life [17], a healthy mental status, emotional balance, hope for the future [17],
and subjective well-being (SWB) [ 7], which is the psychological state of well-being, joy,
and contentment [14,18]. Happiness as an emotional state is linked to one’s physiological
reactions to life events [ 19] based on the Hedonic Adaptation Theory of Brickman and
Campbell [20] and the Set-Point Theory [21].
Happiness as a health indicator: In a study, 785 participants were asked to list associa-
tions that came to mind on hearing the word happiness [22]. The participants associated
happiness mostly with health and relationships.
Happiness as a transient state: Happiness is deﬁned as a transient mood state of
enthusiasm and joy, and it reﬂects the person’s effect on one’s current state [15].
Despite the myriad conceptualizations of happiness, there are several questions that
remain unanswered. The research questions that guided this inquiry were: Is happiness a
temporary state of mind or emotion? Is happiness something we are born with, attain with time, or
both? Or Is happiness a period of long-term life satisfaction and general well-being that we all aspire
to have in our lives?
This systematic review attempts to answer these questions and other novel questions
that may emerge during the research. The aim of this systematic review [23] is to advance
scholarly knowledge by critically reviewing [24,25] the available literature on what consti-
tutes happiness across cultures and countries. In so doing, the reviewers attempt to present
a comprehensive conceptualization of happiness that encompasses its determinants coher-
ently and to arrive at a universally applicable conceptualization of happiness supporting
the attainment of the following United Nations Sustainable Developmental Goals (SDGs):
Good Health and Well-Being (Goal 3), Decent Work and Economic Growth (Goal 8), and
Responsible Consumption and Production (Goal 12).
2. Materials and Methods
2.1. Literature Search and Study Selection
A systematic review [23], was conducted based on the Preferred Reporting Items for
Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA model, Figure 1) [26], and the Critical
Appraisal Skill Program (CASP) Checklist [ 23–25]. These protocols were followed to
examine the literature on what constitutes happiness across cultures and countries.
2.2. Articles Search and Counts
In a meta-analysis [27] (p. 2695), the following keywords that were derived [28] were
highlighted, which included terms such as, “happiness” OR “fulﬁllment” OR “satisfac-
tion” OR “subjective well-being” OR “meaning” OR “pleasure”. Thus, for this systematic
review [23], searches were conducted using the Boolean search strategy that utilized
similar keywords, “happiness” OR “well-being” OR “health” OR “life-satisfaction” OR
“hope” OR “pleasure” OR “harmony”. The justiﬁcation for the use of these keywords
was to examine happiness and its underlying determinants. Using these keywords, initial
studies were identiﬁed from the following databases: APA PsycNet—384 studies, EB-
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 3 of 68
SCO Academic—1260 studies, EBSCO Business—206, Google Scholar—379, and Project
MUSE—446 . A total number of 2675 studies relating to happiness and its underlying
determinants were shortlisted for review.
Figure 1. PRISMA ﬂow diagram of the systematic review performed that included searches of
databases (19 May to 30 July 2020). Note. Hx: happiness variable, IV: independent variable.
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 4 of 68
The procedure for shortlisting included ﬁrst reviewing titles that examined happiness,
after which, the corresponding abstracts were read. Other published works such as book
chapters, case studies, commentaries, or grey literature were initially screened but excluded
due to the lack of focus on their empirical quality in assessing the happiness variable. In
total, 2238 articles were removed that did not meet the authors’ generic and the three speciﬁc
inclusion criteria. Furthermore, 223 articles were sought for retrieval using Mendeley
research software, at which point, 3 were further removed for overlaps found (Figure 1).
For consistency in the search and quality assurance, all searches were performed using
speciﬁc inclusion criteria, (i) the happiness variable was measured speciﬁcally within the
study, (ii) happiness was a dependent variable only and not an independent variable, and
(iii) happiness was measured quantitatively. Based on the search results, the inclusion
criteria for the literature search and study selection included selecting studies, (i) between
1930 and the present that included the oldest empirical study of happiness [ 29], (ii) the
article type that was peer-reviewed empirical research, and scholarly journals with an
impact factor closer to 10 (between 8 and 10), and (iii) all studies had at least one of the
search keywords mentioned above. The data were sought to arrive at the underlying
determinants of happiness across cultures and countries, through the investigation of
the concept of happiness. The extraction criteria were based on the PRISMA model of
systematic reviews (Figure 1) [23,26].
Identiﬁcation: During the identiﬁcation stage, an initial 2675 peer-reviewed articles
related to happiness from 1930 to current (90 years) were found. Before screening, a total
of 214 duplicate articles were removed from articles downloaded from four databases
(Table 1). In total, 14 duplicate articles were found in APA PsycNet, 43 duplicate articles
were found in EBSCO Academic, 21 duplicate articles were found in EBSCO Business, and
136 articles were found in the Project MUSE database (Table 1).
Table 1. Initial articles were downloaded from ﬁve databases.
Databases Total Articles Overlap Total Peer-Reviewed Articles
APA PsycNet 384 14 370
EBSCO–Academic 1260 43 1217
EBSCO–Business Source 206 21 185
Google Scholar 379 0 379
Project MUSE 446 136 310
2675 214 2461
Screening: During the screening stage, a total of 2461 abstracts were selected after
removing 214 redundancies (overlaps/duplicates). The abstracts for all 2461 articles were
downloaded and further screened for articles that aligned with the authors’ generic and
speciﬁc inclusion criteria. A total of 220 articles were thus chosen as eligible for a detailed
systematic review. These were downloaded onto Mendeley’s research software.
A detailed study of each of the 220 articles led to a further exclusion of 65 articles
that comprised 18 review articles and 47 articles that were screened out by the authors’
exclusion criteria where (i) no happiness variable was measured speciﬁcally within the
study, or, (ii) happiness was an independent variable only and not a dependent variable, or,
(iii) happiness was only measured qualitatively.
After the studies were identiﬁed, duplicate records were removed and screened, and
studies were sought for retrieval and assessed for eligibility (PRISMA model, Figure 1),
and chosen for review (Figure 1) [26]. In total, 155 studies were shortlisted for review after
applying the exclusion and inclusion criteria and the CASP checklist [ 24]. Studies were
selected for a full review if they helped respond to the following questions: What constitutes
happiness? Or what contributes to happiness? Or what does happiness consist of?
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 5 of 68
2.3. Critical Appraisal and Assessment Procedure
The critical appraisal [24,25] further involved speciﬁc inclusion and assessment criteria
that validated each study regarding its thoroughness and credibility. The studies that we
included in the systematic review were mainly empirical studies. The three inclusion criteria
applied within the study, (i) the happiness variable was measured speciﬁcally within the
study, (ii) happiness was a dependent variable only and not an independent variable, and
(iii) happiness was measured quantitatively. It involved looking at crucial elements such as
(i) the study’s purpose, (ii) objectives, (iii) a methodological design that included p-value
signiﬁcance testing (p ≤ 0.05), (iv) the use of valid and reliable happiness measures that
showed high Cronbach’s alpha coefﬁcient values (0.7 or higher) for the population in each
study, (v) sample demographics such as size, age, gender distributions, geographic, or
ethnic distributions, and (vi) institutional review board-compliant studies. Ranking the
research methodology was also performed based on (i) methodology quality—prevent
systematic errors, (ii) precision—random errors (width of conﬁdence around the results),
(iii) external validity—the extent to which we applied results to the target population and,
(iv) conclusion—expressed on the bases of exploration of ‘what ifs’ and sensitivity analysis.
Finally, the following three exclusion criteria were applied for excluding studies beyond
the scope of this systematic review, (i) no happiness variable was measured speciﬁcally
within the study, (ii) happiness was an independent variable only and not a dependent
variable, and (iii) happiness was only measured qualitatively.
The Critical Appraisal Skill Program (CASP) checklist [24] for systematic reviews [23],
was used to appraise the studies and extract data. Three broad issues were considered
when appraising the studies: (i) Are the results of the study valid? (ii) What are the
results? (iii) Will the results help locally? Moreover, based on the 10 questions from the
CASP Checklist [24], the reviewers evaluated the three broad issues systematically. The
10 questions comprised some screening questions that were answered with either a ‘yes’ or
‘no’. The 10 questions and their responses were,
i. Whether the review addresses a focused question? Yes, the focused question was to
examine what constitutes happiness across cultures and countries.
ii. Did the reviewers look for the right type of papers? Yes, studies with an appropriate
study design and set inclusion/exclusion criteria were selected.
iii. Whether all relevant studies were included? Yes, the reviewers looked at the reference
list and bibliographic databases that were used in addition to the chosen academic
databases to saturate the search on relevant articles pertaining to this study.
iv. Did the reviewers assess the quality of the studies included? Yes, the reviewers
considered the rigor of the studies as identiﬁed in the inclusion and exclusion criteria.
v. Was it reasonable to combine the results of the studies? Yes, when the results from
different studies were similar in terms of the determinants of happiness then the
results were combined and shown under the positive and negative associations of
these determinants with happiness under the Section 3.
vi. What were the overall results of the review? These are shown in each of the tables
under ﬁndings and correlation analysis.
vii. How precise were the results? The precision was assessed based on how neatly the
outcomes matched the study samples with a low rate of errors.
viii. Are the results of the study valid? p-value signiﬁcance testing (p = <0.05) was consid-
ered to ensure the validity of the results in each study.
ix. Will the results help locally? Yes, as studies explored happiness in local contexts such
as speciﬁc countries.
x. Were all important outcomes considered? Yes, the information gathered was large
and comprehensive.
The total number of studies was equally divided amongst the authors for individual
manuscript review. Using the CASP checklist, each author assessed a set number of studies
(e.g., around 50+ studies per author) and created a table to organize the key points from
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 6 of 68
each study, including study journal, happiness measure, sample size/range, and variable
ﬁndings (Appendix A: Tables A1–A3). Using this method, all studies were referenced,
noting each study’s participant demographics and the results where happiness was the
dependent variable, and its determinants were the independent variables. Thus, out of the
initial 2675 articles identiﬁed from the databases (Table 1), a ﬁnal count of 155 empirical
studies on happiness was shortlisted and included in the review (Figure 1).
The 155 manuscripts that were included in the review were equally and randomly
divided amongst the three reviewers. Each reviewer was responsible for reviewing around
50 articles. All three authors reviewed the literature and read the abstracts and articles.
Based on the CASP checklist [24] appraisal and the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the
three reviewers agreed on which studies to include or exclude. All three reviewers reached
a consensus on the criteria for the studies. Subsequently, each reviewer extracted the
data, populated tables, compiled the manuscript ﬁndings, organized the references, and
formatted the tables for their designated set of studies. All three reviewers collectively
discussed and put together the thematic and characterization work and developed the
universal model of happiness based on the common determinants that emerged during the
systematic review.
Whereas the systematic review was not based on any speciﬁc theoretical model, the
happiness ﬁndings uncovered used many theoretical models ranging from the integrative
model of sustainable happiness [14], philosophy and psychological theory, where to the
average individual, personal happiness is generally held to be the ultimate aim of all human
endeavor [30], the ‘theory of Seligman’ [28], which offers three possibilities: happiness can
be reached through pleasure, meaning, or engagement [31], the implicit theory framework
of happiness to foster a more complete understanding of the processes underlying well-
being [32], the theory of personality, where happiness is a personality variable for which a
biological basis can be considered [33], and the theory of positive psychology [14].
3. Results
The ﬁnal 155 studies revealed manifold determinants of happiness (Tables A1–A3).
Based on the commonalities between these determinants across the ﬁndings, we placed
these happiness determinants into three broad categories, labeled as, Health, Hope, and
Harmony. We conceptualized the ﬁrst category, “Health”, as a complete state of mental,
emotional, and physical well-being. We conceptualized the second category “Hope” as
the highest degree of well-founded expectation such as goal achievement and personal
and economic growth. Lastly, we conceptualized the third category “Harmony” as a
state of being in alignment with aspects of social, familial, cultural, and environmental
determinants. The relationships between all categorized determinants and happiness are
further elucidated below (Figure 2).
3.1. Health and Happiness
A total of 56 studies (Table A1) examined the determinants of health. For precision
and simplicity, the Health determinants were categorized under mental, emotional, and
physical determinants based on the patterns that emerged across the studies.
3.1.1. Mental Health and Happiness
A total of nineteen studies examined the effects of mental health on happiness. The
age range of the participants across these studies was between 10 and 99 years, and the
participants were from China, Europe, Germany, India, Iran, Korea, New Zealand, Romania,
Spain, Thailand, Turkey, the UK, and the USA. These studies used both female and male
participants where a majority were male (55% female, 45% male).
Thirteen studies showed an increase in happiness caused by mental health determi-
nants such as positive general mental health, mindfulness, decreased posttraumatic stress
symptoms, creativity, and self-afﬁrmation. Six studies showed a decrease in happiness
caused by the determinants of mental health such as adverse mental health outcomes,
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 7 of 68
depression, poor perception of health, lifetime trauma, addiction, and heavy use of screen-
based media. These determinants were seen to have a negative relationship with happiness
across Asian, American, Black, Hispanic, Native American, Mixed, and White cultures and
ethnic groups.
Figure 2. Process ﬂow diagram of the ﬁndings of the search and selection process. Note.
IV: independent variable; DV: dependent variable.
Several studies investigated mental health treatment and its relationship with hap-
piness. A group of researchers showed that meditation (seven-day intensive Vipassana
retreat) enhanced happiness [34]. Another research study found that a greater number of
sessions per client and decreased post-traumatic stress symptoms were associated with
greater counselor happiness [35]. Mindfulness, grit, and coping competence were found
to positively predict happiness [9,36–38]. Hope and mindfulness were found to share a
positive relationship with happiness, and the recognition of new possibilities and personal
strength predicted happiness [39,40]. Another group of researchers showed that engaging
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 8 of 68
in spontaneous self-afﬁrmation was related to greater happiness and that self-esteem is an
antecedent of happiness [41,42].
Several studies examined negative determinants of happiness. A research study found
that a poorer perception of mental health was associated with less happiness [43]. Another
study showed daily subtle negative experiences were related to adverse mental health
outcomes, such as depression, suicidality, and decreased happiness [ 44]. A study that
examined alexithymia, depression, anxiety, stress, and the relationship of fatigue with hap-
piness, found that decreased posttraumatic stress symptoms were associated with greater
counselor happiness [45]. Higher rates of current depression were associated with higher
levels of happiness seeking, and greater distress (behavioral health) was associated with
lower global happiness [46]. Research showed depression was signiﬁcantly and negatively
associated with pleasure [47], which in turn is associated with happiness. Research revealed
an association between creativity and depression and happiness ratings [48]. Other studies
examined traumatic life events and happiness. The relationship between lifetime trauma
and happiness found that bereavement of a child was associated with lower levels of
happiness [49,50]. A negative relationship between stressful life events and happiness was
found among humbler people [51].
Studies that examined the association between addiction and happiness found that
heavy screen-based media use was associated with less happiness [52], and higher addiction
led to lower levels of happiness [53]. A study found internet addiction signiﬁcantly related
to subjective unhappiness [18].
3.1.2. Emotional Health and Happiness
A total of nine studies examined the effects of emotional health on happiness. The
age range of the participants across these studies was between 9 and 64 years, and the
participants were from Asia, Africa, Australia, Canada, China, Europe, India, the Middle
East, the UK, and the USA. These studies also used both female and male participants (50%
female, 50% male).
All nine studies showed an increase in happiness across countries caused by myriad
emotional health determinants that included psychological well-being, Big Five personality
traits, humor, gratitude, efﬁcacy, caring climate, and positive emotions. These determinants
were seen to have a positive association with happiness.
A study found that psychopathic personality traits such as fearless dominance posi-
tively correlated with higher durable happiness and negatively correlated with ﬂuctuating
happiness [54]. Fluctuating happiness was described as a sudden increase in happiness,
followed by a sudden decrease [ 54]. Big Five personality traits of extraversion, agree-
ableness, neuroticism, conscientiousness, and openness to experiences were found to be
associated with subjective happiness [33]. Holistic wellness and resilience were found to be
determinants of happiness [33,55]. Similarly, psychological well-being was found to have a
signiﬁcant positive association with subjective happiness [56]. Research showed a positive
association between positive emotions and greater happiness [ 57]. Positivity predicted
positive emotions with greater happiness [14].
Efﬁcacy and a caring climate were positively associated with happiness (emotional
health) [58]. Adaptive humor styles (afﬁliative humor and self-enhancing humor) signif-
icantly predicted subjective happiness, whereas maladaptive humor styles (aggressive
humor and self-defeating humor) did not strongly predict subjective happiness [59]. Grati-
tude practice was found to bolster happiness [59].
Various studies investigated psychological determinants of subjective happiness.
Three positive psychology determinants that included gratitude visits, three good things
in life, and using signature strengths in a new way, were found to increase happiness [28].
Positive psychological intervention improved happiness of patients undergoing in vitro
fertilization as a treatment to become pregnant [60].
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 9 of 68
3.1.3. Physical Health and Happiness
A total of 28 studies examined the effects of physical health on happiness. The age
range of participants across these studies was between 5 and 100 years, and the participants
were from 44 countries including Africa, Canada, 15 European countries, the Far East,
France, Germany, Georgia, Greece, India, Iran, Italy, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Palestine,
Poland, South America, Taiwan, the UK, and the USA. These studies also used most male
participants (45% female, 55% male).
A total of 16 studies showed an increase in happiness caused by various physical
health determinants that included regular physical activity, general physical health, the
health of parents, a healthy diet, health insurance, cochlear implantation surgery, and home
dialysis, and nine studies showed a decrease in happiness caused by various determi-
nants of physical health such as poor health, disability, handicap, abuse, advancing age,
disﬁgurement, transition to adulthood, older transgender youth, perceived illness, and
health problems.
A study by a group of researchers showed that general health is associated with general
happiness [61]. Similarly, health was found to positively associate with happiness [ 22].
Physical activity was associated with higher levels of happiness [ 62] and increasing the
volume of physical activity was found to be associated with higher levels of happiness [63].
Another study found that individuals who are more physically active are happier [64]. A
study also found that regular physical activity was associated with greater happiness [65].
Some studies examined severe disability and illness with happiness. A group of
researchers found increased levels of perceived illness to be signiﬁcantly associated with
decreased happiness [66]. More health problems and greater perceived seriousness of the
health problems/effects were found to be associated with less happiness [67]. Disability was
found to be associated with moderate to large drops in happiness over time [68]. Positive
meta-stereotype (positive image) and better perceived general health were associated
with higher overall happiness, whereas feelings of loneliness and disability/handicap
were associated with lower overall happiness [69]. Suffering from a severe disability was
associated with less happiness, and higher BMI was associated with steeper declines in
happiness [70]. Conversely, greater happiness was also found among handicapped youth
vs. control handicapped youth [16]. People with disﬁgurements were subjectively judged
as being less happy [71].
Several studies investigated medical health policies and the perceptions of health and
their relation to happiness. A study showed that national health insurance signiﬁcantly
increased happiness [72]. Cochlear implantation surgery was found to increase happiness
in mothers of children with hearing loss [73]. Higher levels of happiness were found among
home dialysis patients [66]. Another study reported greater happiness post-renal trans-
plant [74]. Use of a microswitch-based program for Rett syndrome (promotes locomotion
ﬂuency) was found to increase happiness [75].
Some studies established relationships between age and happiness in general and
based on early trauma and stressful events experienced throughout life. Some studies
found no signiﬁcant difference in the happiness levels between children, adolescents, and
adults [10,76]. Another study showed individual happiness determined by age and found
a U-shaped relationship between age and happiness [ 77]. Studies also found a trend
in the trajectory of happiness from early adulthood to midlife [ 8,78]; they showed that
older adults who experienced traumatic events during childhood vs. after the transition
to adulthood exhibited lower subjective happiness; as age increased, happiness levels
decreased. Transition to adulthood exhibited lower subjective happiness and happiness
showed a downward trend in the older age groups [79,80]. Research showed a negative
association between a past-negative time perspective and happiness with aging [ 81]. A
study found that older transgender youth experienced lower happiness than younger
patients [82]. Being younger, widowed, or separated from a spouse and experiencing high
levels of stress had signiﬁcant direct effects on diminishing happiness with low levels of
health satisfaction [83]. Another study showed that eudaimonia and hedonic happiness
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 10 of 68
remained relatively stable across the lifespan only in the most afﬂuent nations [ 84]. This
showed the role of determinants in the relationship between age and happiness.
3.2. Hope and Happiness
Hope was an emergent happiness theme. A total of 23 studies (Table A2) examined the
hope-based determinants of happiness, classiﬁed into the categories of purpose and goal
achievement, personal growth, and economic growth, based on the patterns that emerged
across the studies. Within these categories, goal achievement, task performance, a greater
set of goals to pursue, the enjoyment of and success at work, life satisfaction, and positive
thinking about the future had a positive association with happiness; socioeconomic status,
economic scarcity, and unemployment had a positive association with happiness.
3.2.1. Goal Achievement and Happiness
A total of 10 studies identiﬁed a range of work- and study-related determinants that
inﬂuenced happiness through hope for goal achievement. The age range of participants
was between 15 and 94 years, and the participants were from 32 countries including Asia,
China, Europe, Germany, Iran, and the USA. Both female and male participants were
present in these studies, with a majority being female (55% female, 45% male).
All 10 studies showed an increase in happiness caused by the determinants of goal
and purpose that included occupation, task performance, goal focus, a greater set of
goals to pursue, education, the enjoyment of and success at work, occupational control,
compensation, scholastic achievement, self-employment, job training, and need-supplies
across different communities.
Mastery-approach goals were found to facilitate higher levels of happiness with task
performance than performance-approach goals in conditions of unfavorable social compar-
isons [85]. Greater elective selection (choosing a particular goal or set of goals to pursue),
loss-based selection (selecting goals in the face of resource loss), optimization (enhancing or
acquiring resources to achieve a goal), and compensation (reallocating resources towards
another goal to maintain functioning at a speciﬁc level) were found related to greater
happiness [86]. A person’s valence success at a task predicted greater happiness when they
succeeded, but greater unhappiness when they failed [87]. High core self-evaluation and
needs-supplies ﬁt (congruence between employees’ needs and the rewards received for
work) signiﬁcantly predicted greater happiness [88]. Enjoyment of and success in work and
serious hard-working living were determinants contributing to happiness [29]. Job training,
cognition, health, social network, and extraversion explained a substantial proportion of
variance in happiness [ 89]. Higher occupational status corresponded to greater happi-
ness [90]. Similarly, more education, higher personal income, and greater occupational
control were related to increased happiness (in men) [91]. Job satisfaction in self-employed
workers vs. organizational workers is related to greater happiness [ 92]. Nations with
better scholastic achievement performances (mathematics, reading, and scientiﬁc literacy)
displayed higher happiness scores [93].
3.2.2. Personal Growth and Happiness
A total of eight studies examined the effects of personal growth on happiness. The
age range of the participants across these studies was between 18 and 91 years, and the
participants were from Ghana, Slovenia, Switzerland, and the USA. Both female and male
participants were present in these studies, with the majority being female (55% female,
45% male). The determinants of personal growth on happiness that emerged were life
satisfaction, positive thinking about oneself, growth mindsets, opportunities for learning,
perceived power, personal meaning, and positive engagement.
All studies showed an increase in happiness caused by personal growth determinants
such as personal growth, life satisfaction, positive thinking about oneself, growth mindsets,
opportunities for learning, perceived power, personal meaning, and positive engagement.
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 11 of 68
Emotional intelligence, personal growth initiative, and life satisfaction showed an
association with happiness [94]. Growth mindsets led to stronger beliefs in the changeable
nature of happiness and were found associated with greater well-being and greater rela-
tionship satisfaction [32]. Perceived power was positively related to happiness [95]. Other
studies examined the association between meaning, positive engagement in happiness
showed that meaning and engagement were positively associated with happiness [ 31].
Orientation to pleasure, meaning, and engagement (dimension-centered approach) was
positively associated with happiness [96]. Rumination inducing messages led to less hap-
piness, whereas hope-inducing messages led to greater happiness [97]. Higher personal
mastery and positive health behaviors were positively correlated with happiness [ 98].
Higher resilience was associated with greater joviality and happiness [99].
3.2.3. Economic Growth and Happiness
A total of ﬁve studies examined the effects of economic growth on happiness. These
studies employed the following happiness measures: The age range of the participants
across these studies was between 15 and 91 years, and the participants were from32 cultures
across 6 continents and 100 countries that included Asia, Africa, America, China, Indonesia,
National Survey, Pakistan, Philippines, and Thailand. Both female and male participants
were present in these studies, the majority being female (52% female, 48% male).
Three studies showed an increase in happiness caused by the determinants of eco-
nomic growth that included increased economic growth, socio-economic status, and ﬁscal
decentralization across economically diverse communities. Two studies showed a negative
impact on happiness caused by the determinants of economic growth that included less
economic freedom, economic scarcity, the earnings of others, unemployment, and economic
disparity across communities.
The determinants of economic growth on happiness, such as socioeconomic status,
and ﬁscal decentralization increased happiness (Table A2). Less economic freedom, eco-
nomic scarcity, the earnings of others, unemployment, and economic disparity were de-
terminants of economic growth that harmed happiness, as reported in the three studies
referenced below.
Subjective socioeconomic status and coming from a higher-income country positively
correlated with happiness [100]. Rapid economic growth and rises in the price of housing
led to greater happiness in older people than the youth [101]. Income did not affect the level
of happiness of those who lived in either urban or rural areas [102]. Fiscal decentralization
(improved capacity of districts to deliver public services) signiﬁcantly increased citizen
happiness [103].
Other studies looked at the impact of economic scarcity on happiness. Individuals
with unemployment and low health status reported lower happiness [104]. A study found
less economic freedom was negatively associated with happiness [ 105]. These studies
show that social comparison rather than absolute earnings or economic status has a great
inﬂuence on the assessment of happiness. Collectively, these studies show the impact of
one’s economic status on happiness, whereas lower status has a greater negative impact
on happiness.
3.3. Harmony and Happiness
Harmony emerged as a happiness determinants category, where 76 studies (Table A3)
examined the determinants of harmony on happiness. For precision and simplicity, the
harmony determinants were categorized under social, family, culture, and environment
determinants based on the patterns that emerged across the studies.
3.3.1. Social Harmony and Happiness
A total of 12 studies examined the effects of social relationships on happiness and
found a positive relationship between them. The age range of the participants across these
studies was between 16 and 79 years, and the participants were from 34 countries including
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 12 of 68
Asia, the Americas, Spain, Canada, Germany, South Africa, Slovak, Uganda, the UK, and
the USA. Both female and male participants were present in these studies, the majority
being female (54% female, 46% male).
In total, 11 studies showed an increase in happiness caused by the determinants
of social context that included prosocial behavior, social relations, life balance, leisure,
social support, sense of community, socializing, developing positive thinking about social
groups, nurturing social relationships, and social context. One study showed no signiﬁcant
relationship between social support and happiness.
Study showed that individual-level happiness was determined by social context,
i.e., age, education, employer status, and health [106]. Prosocial actions (acts of kindness
towards others) led to greater increase in happiness than self-focused actions and neutral be-
haviors [107]. Prosocial spending was consistently associated with greater happiness [108].
Inﬂuence, social relations, life balance, optimism, work, and leisure were all positively
associated with happiness levels [15]. Social relations, higher social support, and a sense
of community, even online (Facebook), contributed to decreased loneliness and increased
happiness [109–111]. School belonging mediated the association between social and aca-
demic competence and students’ concurrent happiness [112]. However, a study found no
signiﬁcant relationship between social support and happiness [113].
These studies collectively show that a sense of belonging, good social relations, and
support are important determinants of happiness. Other studies examined the effect of
social activities on happiness. Training programs in happiness that centered on fundamen-
tals such as keeping busy, spending more time socializing, developing positive thinking,
and working on a healthy personality demonstrated signiﬁcant happiness increase over
a control group receiving summary instruction in the program [30]. Activities endorsed
by happiness seekers included nurturing social relationships, practicing acts of kindness,
pursuing goals, practicing religion and/or spirituality, using strategies to cope with stress
or adversity, avoiding overthinking and social comparison, practicing meditation, goal
evaluation and tracking, savoring the moment, gratitude journaling, thinking optimistically,
remembering happy days, and strengthening social relationships [13].
3.3.2. Family Harmony and Happiness
A total of 33 studies examined the effects of harmony in the family on happiness and
found a positive relationship between them. The age range of participants across these
studies was between 3 and 96 years, and the participants were from Africa, China, Egypt,
Europe, the Far East, Iceland, India, Iran, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan,
Portugal, South Africa, South America, Spain, the UK, and the USA. These studies used
both female and male participants, where the majority were female (65% female, 35% male).
A total of 29 studies showed an increase in happiness caused by the determinants
of family, which included family support, family communication, good connections with
family, emotional support, home-dwelling elders, time spent with parents, positive moth-
ering, positive marital relationship, entering cohabitation, perceived help from spouse,
gender levels, women’s self-esteem, quality of experience in wife’s role, pregnant women,
work-family conciliation, higher resilience, and women with higher affective intensity.
Studies that revolved around family communication, emotional support, and family so-
cial support, showed that improved subjective happiness led to familyhappiness [114–117].
Happiness was found to be positively associated with good connections with family and
friends, school, regular exercise, and meals with family [118]. Family social support, i.e.,
cohesion, expressiveness, and conﬂict, showed a positive association with happiness [ 119].
Family communication, family well-being, and gratitude intervention improved family
happiness [114,120]. Similarly, family communication, emotional support, and family social
support were found leading to improved subjective happiness and family happiness [115].
Some studies examined the relationship between elders and happiness. Highly suc-
cessful and home-dwelling elders demonstrated signiﬁcantly higher happiness [121]. Emo-
tional support from parents together with time spent with parents had the largest positive
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 13 of 68
inﬂuence on happiness [ 122]. Higher perceptions of work–family conciliation predicted
higher happiness [123]. Positive mothering led to increased joy and pleasure [ 124] and
emotional deregulation [114].
Several studies examined marital relationships and happiness. Studies found that
success in dealing with marriage contributed to happiness [ 29]; and that a positive rela-
tionship existed between marriage and happiness [125]. Higher happiness was found in a
balanced marriage [126]; while fewer difﬁculties in a marital relationship status positively
related to happiness and showed that perceived help from the spouse increased partners’
happiness [127]. A more balanced marriage with intra-couple education (both husband
and wife are well-educated) demonstrated higher happiness [ 126]. Unhappily married
couples showed a deﬁcit in problem-solving, in more unresolved problems, less involve-
ment with one another, and less shared sexuality [128]. Less happiness in marriage was
caused by viewing explicit sexual movies [129]. Other forms of close, intimate relationships
also contributed to happiness. Studies found that entering cohabitation is as beneﬁcial as
entering marriage and contributed to a peoples’ happiness [19,130].
Moreover, successful marital and parental relations were also positively associated
with happiness. Therapist contact programs improved marital happiness [131]. In a study
that was conducted in the USA with a racial/ethnic composition of the total enrolled
sample that included both mothers and children, with 18% African American/Black,
79% Latino/Hispanic, and 1% of mixed racial/ethnic background, found that children of
mothers living with HIV who underwent the Teaching, Raising, and Communicating with
Kids (TRACK) program, exhibited increase in happiness [132].
Some studies examined women’s gender role’s impact on happiness. Self-esteem,
the number of roles a woman occupied (e.g., paid worker, wife, mother), family income,
being a paid worker, and quality of experience in a wife’s role were signiﬁcantly, positively
associated with pleasure [47,133]. Women declared a lower level of happiness compared to
men in post-socialist countries [134]. By contrast, women with higher affective intensity
than men were as happy as men [79]. Women disagreeing with subservient gender attitudes
reported higher happiness [8,135], and research showed males had higher happiness levels
than females [136]. Most pregnant women, of maternal age (21–40), and with no smoking
history independently correlated with higher happiness [17]. Women with more planned
pregnancies, and who had more difﬁculty in deciding to terminate, experienced lower
levels of happiness when it came to deciding about abortions [137]. Most of the women
in poverty/victims of intimate partner violence (IPV) showed an optimistic outlook, and
higher feelings of social support led to greater happiness [138].
Finally, studies showed a decrease in happiness caused by various determinants of
the family such as unhappy couples, negative marital relationships, viewing explicit sexual
movies, and women terminating pregnancies [139,140].
3.3.3. Cultural Harmony and Happiness
A total of seven studies examined the effects of culture on happiness. The age range
of participants across these studies was between 11 and 90 years, and the participants
were from Australia, Canada, China, Germany, Ghana/Sub-Saharan Africa, India, Japan,
Malaysia, Netherlands, Rwanda, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, and the USA. Both female and
male participants were used in these studies, where the majority were female (56% female,
44% male). Six studies showed an increase in happiness caused by the determinants of
culture, ethnicity, indigenous culture, multiculturalism, segregation, self-identiﬁcation,
and ethnic identiﬁcation. Only one study showed a decrease in happiness caused by the
determinants of culture.
All studies showed an increase in happiness caused by the determinants of culture
that included culture, ethnicity, religion, spirituality indigenous culture, multiculturalism,
segregation, self-identiﬁcation, ethnic identiﬁcation, faith, forgiveness, religious attendance,
tolerance, and spirituality.
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 14 of 68
Studies found that the characterization of a happy person differed at a cultural
level, [12,141], and found culture and polymorphism interacted to inﬂuence the perception
of happiness. Some studies examined the role of indigenous culture on happiness. In-
digenous Australians in remote areas reported higher levels of happiness [142]. Mountain
indigenous peoples, females, the elderly, and those who were healthier, wealthier, highly
educated, with western beliefs, who received medical beneﬁts, and were without housing
problems or ﬁnancial difﬁculties were more likely to be happy [143]. Other researchers
reported higher levels of happiness among indigenous people [ 142,143]. Other studies
examined the role of identity, multiculturism, and segregation on happiness. National
identiﬁcation, ethnic identiﬁcation, self-identiﬁcation, strict identity duality, perceived ac-
ceptance, and feeling at home were signiﬁcantly positively associated with happiness [144].
A positive relationship was found between perceived school multiculturalism and subjec-
tive happiness [145]. Decreased segregation was associated with a reduction in happiness
among Black populations [146].
3.3.4. Religious Harmony and Happiness
A total of 12 studies examined the effects of religion on happiness. The age range of
the participants across these studies was between 11 and 90 years, and the participants
were from Australia, Canada, China, Germany, Ghana/Sub-Saharan Africa, India, Japan,
Malaysia, Netherlands, Rwanda, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, and the USA. Both female and
male participants were used in these studies, where the majority were female (56% female,
44% male).
A total of 10 studies showed an increase in happiness caused by the determinants of
religion, faith, forgiveness, religious attendance, tolerance, and spirituality. Two studies
showed a decrease in happiness caused by spiritual struggles.
Some studies examined the role of religious faith and forgiveness on happiness. The
relationship between lifetime trauma and happiness was fully moderated for people who
experienced a religious transformation [147]. A signiﬁcant positive contribution of forgive-
ness (self, others, situation) was found to lead towards greater happiness [148]. Personal
happiness was predicted by active religious involvement and regular attendance to religious
services [149,150]. Religious attendance and religiosity were signiﬁcant positive predictors
of happiness [151]. Synagogue attendance, prayer and religious attendance were associated
with greater happiness [152]. Happiness positively correlated with the characteristics of
tolerance, helpfulness, beliefs, spirituality, responsibility, purposefulness, worthiness, trust,
and reliability [153]. Religiousness positively affected with happiness [ 154]. Practicing
Islamic-based gratitude exercises (associating blessings with Allah) raised participants’
happiness levels [155]. Subjective happiness was positively correlated with non-organized
religious activity and intrinsic religiosity [156]. Other studies examined the role of spiritual
struggles and forgiveness on happiness. More spiritual struggles were associated with less
happiness [157]. Speciﬁcally, all ﬁve types of the religious and spiritual struggles assessed
(divine, demonic, interpersonal, moral, and ultimate meaning) correlated signiﬁcantly
negatively with happiness [158].
3.3.5. Environmental Harmony and Happiness
A total of 10 studies examined the effects of the environment on happiness. The age
range of participants across these studies was between 18 and 93 years, and the participants
were from Australia, Taiwan, the UK, and the USA. Both female and male participants
were used in these studies, where the majority were female (60% female, 40% male).
Nine studies showed an increase in happiness caused by the determinants of environ-
ment such as ecology, aesthetic neighborhoods, park visitation, green environment, green
space, more water, better air quality, quiet neighborhoods, dog ownership, horticulture
therapy, and increased environmentally friendly fruit and vegetable consumption. One
study showed a decrease in happiness caused by the determinant of environment that
included disaster, whereas one study showed a decrease in happiness.
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 15 of 68
Living in urban vs. rural areas was associated with greater happiness [65]. Park visita-
tion and greater diversity of park activities were found to stimulate happiness [159,160].
Neighborhoods with higher levels of aesthetics, more water, green space, and higher per-
ceived safety were associated with greater happiness [11]. Better air quality/less pollution
and quietness in the neighborhood, a higher level of ecological diversity derived from
a green environment, diversity of species, and perceived naturalness enhanced happi-
ness [161]. Horticulture therapy that included plant cultivation and plant-related material
application signiﬁcantly improved happiness [162]. Whereas these studies show the rela-
tionship between harmony with the local environment and happiness, other studies show
the relationship between the foreign environment and happiness. A study showed that
travel created short-term happiness through emotional and relational experiences [ 163].
Harmony with the environment also pertained to environmentally friendly food con-
sumption. Increased fruit and vegetable consumption was predictive of increased happi-
ness [100,164]. Dog ownership increased happiness [165]. This study indicates harmony
with species in the immediate environment, important to happiness.
On the negative side, a study showed that environmental disasters signiﬁcantly de-
creased happiness [115]. Age, leisure activity engagement, and the earnings of others in
the neighborhood were negatively associated with happiness [166,167].
The ﬁndings of this systematic review and the subsequent categorization of the pre-
dominant emerging happiness determinants resolve previous disputes or indecisive issues
about happiness by presenting determinants of happiness that were supported by most
studies. Presenting these determinants under three consistent categories of Health, Hope,
and Harmony have been depicted in Figure 2 as a process ﬂow diagram.
4. Discussion
The purpose of this systematic review was to advance scholarly knowledge by criti-
cally reviewing [23–25] the literature on what constitutes happiness and the determinants of
happiness across cultures and countries. We identiﬁed and analyzed 155 empirical studies
that examined the effects of different determinants on happiness from over 100 countries
and 44 cultures. Based on the patterns that emerged among these studies, the myriad hap-
piness determinants were placed into three major categories: Health, Hope, and Harmony
(Appendix A: Tables A1–A3).
The research questions that guided this inquiry were: Is happiness a temporary state
of mind or emotion? Is happiness something we are born with, attain with time, or both? Or Is
happiness a period of long-term life satisfaction and general well-being that we all aspire to have
in our lives? The ﬁndings of this study revealed that happiness can be attained, decreased,
and increased over one’s lifetime. Happiness can also be a state infused by a period of
long-term life satisfaction and general well-being. The happiness determinants derived
from the reviewed studies support the transient nature of happiness and its inﬂuence by
internal and external determinants and circumstances.
Health (mental, emotional, and physical health) and happiness studies show that by
focusing on positive health determinants, one may promote the individual’s and society’s
well-being for all ages, thus contributing to SDG Good Health and Well-Being (Goal 3).
Hope (goal achievement, personal, and emotional growth) and happiness studies
show that by focusing on positive hope determinants, one may promote inclusivity and
lifelong learning, sustainable economic growth, and employment opportunity for all ages,
supporting SDG Decent Work and Economic Growth (Goal 8).
Harmony (social, familial, cultural, and environmental) and happiness studies show
that by focusing on positive Harmony determinants, cities, and human settlements can
become inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable through sustainable consumption and
production patterns, supporting SDG Responsible Consumption and Production (Goal 12)
through evidence-based research.
Happiness is conceptualized as an experience that occurs intermittently over one’s
lifetime. This ﬂuctuating experience occurs because of the permutations and combinations
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 16 of 68
of various mental, emotional, physical, goal achievement, personal, economic growth, so-
cial, family, cultural, religious, and environmental determinants, which can be categorized
comprehensively as one’s holistic aspirations for Health, Hope, and/or Harmony. These
determinants can positively or negatively impact the experience of happiness and make it
ﬂuctuate (either increase or decrease) at different times in one’s life journey. This ﬂuctu-
ating experience of happiness is a result of either a positive or a negative inﬂuence of the
determinant/s during a given period. For example and to name a few, determinants such
as mental depression, addiction, physical disability, economic poverty, social loneliness,
separation from a spouse, the death of a loved one, and pollution that have a negative
impact vs. determinants such as creativity, humor, relaxation, success at work, doing well at
school, ﬁnancial independence, national pride, religious faith, and pet ownership that have
a positive impact can either result in a decrease or increase in one’s happiness experience at
a particular given time when the determinant exists.
The conceptualization of happiness has been depicted as an “Integrated Model of the
Determinants of Happiness” (Figure 3).
4.1. Theoretical Contribution
This review paper contributes to the literature in the interdisciplinary area of envi-
ronmental health sciences and public health, by presenting an “Integrated Model of the
Determinants of Happiness” applicable across cultures and countries. The determinants of
happiness are depicted by the authors in the inductively derived “Integrated Model of the
Determinants of Happiness” (Figure 3). The model depicts that the three main determinants
of happiness, i.e., Health, Hope, and Harmony, are interrelated and interact with each
other in a symbiotic manner to determine the happiness of individuals and societies. The
“Integrated Model of the Determinants of Happiness” provides a holistic framework that
empowers individuals and societies to take control of their happiness (Figure 3).
4.2. Implications for Policies and Practice
The systematic review [ 23] has several implications for policy and practice. The
“Integrated Model of the Determinants of Happiness” serves as a foundation and tool
for building happiness assessments for measuring the categories of Health, Hope, and
Harmony. The results of such assessment can help policymakers and public health practi-
tioners design and implement evidence-based happiness policies and clinical practices that
will help individuals and families work on creating their happiness and making societies
happier overall. The clinical public health implications are to implement policies and prac-
tices at a national level that foster the happiness of individuals as this will result in more
productive, vital members of society that can meaningfully contribute to the prosperity of
a country. Ultimately, this will lead to beneﬁcial individual, familial, organizational, and
economic outcomes, because happy people are more productive people.
4.3. Social Implications
The current times of geopolitical upheaval and disruption as well as the COVID-19
pandemic have resulted in instability and uncertainty in the external environment [168,169].
Given these exogenous shock events and global disruptions and distress, “the Integrated
Model of the Determinants of Happiness” has great signiﬁcance, relevance, and impact as
it depicts the elements of life that are vital for happiness—something we all strive towards
and desire to attain and maintain throughout our lives.
The impacts of anthropogenic determinants on the quality of the environment, the
interrelationships between environmental health and the quality of life and happiness, as
well as the sociocultural, political, and economic related to happiness across the globe, are
noteworthy considerations in fostering the happiness of individuals and societies.
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 17 of 68
Figure 3. Integrated Model of the Determinants of Happiness. Note. Figure 3 depicts the three
key categories of happiness and their underlying determinants. Health: a complete state of mental,
emotional, and physical well-being. Hope: the highest degree of a well-founded expectation of goal
achievement, personal, and economic growth. Harmony: a state of being in alignment with aspects
of social, familial, cultural, religion, and environmental. + shows a positive impact. − shows a
negative impact.
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 18 of 68
4.4. Limitations and Future Research
Some overlap was seen among research studies grouped under the three categories of
Health, Hope, and Harmony. However, as a strict demarcation was not possible due to the
interrelated and symbiotic nature of the three categories of happiness, the Health, Hope,
and Harmony ﬁndings were grouped based on the dominant and common underlying
determinants that emerged under each category. Future research can address this limitation.
Moreover, this research was conducted before and during the COVID-19 pandemic,
whereas happiness studies conducted before the pandemic were analyzed. Therefore, we
cannot make any inferences about how happiness has changed among individuals and
societies during the pandemic, nor can we make any inferences about whether certain
determinants of happiness become more prominent than others during times of crises
and adversity.
There is scope for research in this ﬁeld as each of the categories of happiness can be an
area of further research considering external, global exogenous events such as the COVID-
19 pandemic. Advanced statistical tools such as conﬁrmatory factor analyses or path
modeling can make for a more robust understanding of the pathways to explain happiness,
thereby allowing for the statistical generalization of authors’ ﬁndings to populations across
the globe.
5. Conclusions
This systematic review [23] investigated the happiness construct to arrive at a univer-
sally applicable conceptualization of the determinants of happiness across the globe. By
examining studies on determinants of happiness across 44 cultures and 100 countries in the
past 90 years, this systematic review uncovered that happiness is constituted by multiple
determinants that can be placed into three main categories: ‘Health’, ‘Hope’, and ‘Har-
mony’. The happiness determinants are one’s mental, emotional, and physical well-being
(Health), having a purposeful holistic encompassing work–life balance, nurturing social
relationships, caring for self and others (Hope), and being in harmony with one’s culture,
traditions, community, and the environment moderated by economic, social, cultural, and
environmental conditions that impact individual and societal happiness (Harmony).
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, S.S. and R.V .; methodology, S.S. and S.K.; software, S.K.
and S.S.; validation, S.S., S.K. and R.V .; formal analysis, S.S., S.K. and R.V .; investigation, S.S., S.K.
and R.V .; resources, S.S. and S.K.; data curation, S.S. and S.K.; writing—original draft preparation,
S.S. and S.K.; writing—review and editing, S.K. and R.V .; visualization, S.K. and R.V .; supervision,
S.K. and S.S.; project administration, S.K. and S.S.; funding acquisition, S.S. and R.V . All authors have
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available in the Appendix A.
Acknowledgments: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 19 of 68
Appendix A
Table A1. Health and Happiness, ﬁnal count (N = 56).
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
1
Abachizadeh, K., Omidnia, S.,
Hajebi, A.,
Shekarriz-Foumani, R., and
Mohseny, M. (2018).
Measuring positive health of
Iranians; Finding from Iran
social health survey (ISHS).
Medical
journal of the
Islamic
Republic of
Iran, 32, 1–6.
Self-report item
using 5-point
Likert Scale
10,500 participants
from Iran (Age
Range = 18 and
older; 51% Female,
49% Male).
Males showed higher happiness levels than
females. As age increased, happiness levels
decreased. Happiness was signiﬁcantlyhigher in
cities than in centers of provinces and rural areas,
in never married or married persons in comparison
to those divorced or widowed, in people with
academic education and employed persons. The
WHO deﬁned different aspects of positive health as
life satisfaction, quality of life, happiness, and
self-rated health, and developed appropriate scales
to measure positive health. Criterion validity of
scales with a 40-question national happiness scale
was examined in this research. The correlation
coefﬁcient of scales with a 40-item happiness scale
was between 0.49, 0.53, 0.57, and 0.60 for ‘health
status’, ‘happiness’, ‘quality of life’, and ‘life
satisfaction’, respectively”.
+
satisfaction
+ quality of
life
− increased
age Iran Iranian 44
2
Abu-Raiya, H., Pargament, K.
I., Krause, N., and Ironson, G.
(2015). Robust links between
religious/spiritual struggles,
psychological distress, and
well-being in a national
sample of American adults.
American
Journal of Or-
thopsychiatry,
85(6), 565–575.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
2208 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 50.74,
Standard
Deviation = 19.00,
Age Range = 18–96
years; 59% Female,
41% Male).
All 5 types of the religious/spiritual struggles
assessed (divine, demonic, interpersonal, moral,
ultimate meaning) correlated signiﬁcantly
negatively with happiness.
− religion,
spiritual
struggles
USA American 54
3
Ansari, H., Ansari
Moghaddam, A.,
Mohammadi, M., and
Mahdavifar, N. (2018).
Investigating the relationship
between happiness and
self-conﬁdence with
addiction recurrence in
addicted people undergoing
methadone treatment referred
to addiction treatment centers
of Zahedan city with an
emphasis on the confounders
of demographic variables and
variables related to drug
taking recurrence.
World Family
Medicine
Journal:
Incorporating
the Middle
East Journal
of Family
Medicine,
99(5832), 1–8.
Oxford
Happiness
Questionnaire
(OHQ)
250 participants
from Iran (Age
Range = 25 years
below and above;
18% Female; 82%
Male).
Incidence of addiction was higher in people with
lower levels of happiness but was not statistically
signiﬁcant. Correlational analyses revealed that all
5 types of the struggles assessed (i.e., divine,
demonic, interpersonal, moral, ultimate meaning)
correlated signiﬁcantly positively with both
depressive symptoms and generalized anxiety, and
signiﬁcantly negatively with both satisfaction with
life and happiness. Happiness has a weak
correlation with addiction recurrence.
−
addiction
− divine,
interpersonal,
moral
struggles
Iran Iranian 14
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 20 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
4
Baruch, G. K., and Barnett, R.
(1986). Role quality, multiple
role involvement, and
psychological well-being in
midlife women.
Journal of
personality
and social
psychology,
51(3), 578–585.
Pleasure
Scale (PS)
238 participants
from the USA
(Age
Range = 35–55 years;
100% Female).
Self-esteem, number of roles a woman occupied
(e.g., paid worker, wife, mother), family income,
paid worker, and quality of experience in a wife’s
role were signiﬁcantly, positively associated with
pleasure. Depression was signiﬁcantlynegatively
associated with pleasure. Happiness or
satisfaction are used as indices of well-being.
−
Depression
+
self-esteem,
+ family
income, roles
of women,
quality of
experience of
wife’s role
USA American 120
5
Bieda, A., Hirschfeld, G.,
Schoenfeld, P ., Brailovskaia,
J., Zhang, X. C., and Margrave,
J. (2017). Universal
happiness? Cross-cultural
measurement invariance of
scales assessing positive
mental health.
Psychological
Assessment,
29(4), 408–421.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
20,000 participants
from Germany
(Mean Age = 26.54,
SD = 4.00, Age
Range = 18–60
years; 45% Female,
55% Male), Russia
(Mean Age = 20.3,
SD = 2.4, Age
Range = 14–42
years; 35% Female,
65% Male), and
China
(Mean Age = 19.73,
SD = 1.86, Age
Range = 14–42
years; 38% Female,
62% Male).
On a cultural level, the characterization of a happy
person differed. Traditionally, happiness is deﬁned
by the experience of more frequent positive
affective states than negative ones (Bradburn, 1969).
+ positive
affective
state, −
negative
affective
state
Germany,
Russia,
China
German,
Russian,
Chinese
73
6
Boissoneault, J., Sevel, L.,
Robinson, M. E., and Staud,
R. (2018). Functional brain
connectivity of remembered
fatigue or happiness in
healthy adults: Use of arterial
spin labeling.
Journal of
clinical and
experimental
neuropsychol-
ogy, 40(3),
224–233.
Visual
Analogue
Scale (V AS)
17 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 22.4,
SD = 5.9; 59%
Female, 41%
Male).
Greater functional connectivity between the
inferior frontal gyrus and a cluster including the
right fusiform gyrus, right cerebellum, and right
lingual gyrus was associated with greater
happiness ratings. Greater connectivity between
the cuneus and a cluster including the left occipital
pole, the left fusiform gyrus, and the left lingual
gyrus was associated with lower happiness ratings.
Positive mood induction resulted in mean
in-scanner happiness ratings of 46.07 (18.99). H9
+ positive
mood USA American 43
7
Bojanowska, A., and Zaleski,
A. M. (2016). Lay
understanding of happiness
and the experience of
well-being: Are some
conceptions of happiness
more beneﬁcial than others?
Journal of
Happiness
Studies, 17(2),
793–815.
Positive and
Negative
Affect
Schedule
(PANAS)
785 participants
from Poland (Age
Range = 13–45
years).
Health was positively associated with happiness. In
total, 785 participants were asked to list
associations that came to mind on hearing the
word ‘happiness’. Participants associated
happiness mostly with health and relationships.
+ health Poland Polish 82
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 21 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
8
Bombari, D., Schmid Mast,
M., and Bachmann, M. (2017).
Felt power explains the link
between position power and
experienced emotions.
Emotion,
17(1), 55–66.
Self-report item
using 5-point
Likert Scale
160 participants
from Switzerland
(Mean Age = 23.52,
SD = 3.65; 50%
Female, 50%
Male).
Felt power was positively related to happiness but
not positional power. Positive emotions were an
aggregate of happiness and interest. Happiness
can also be more post-goal oriented (e.g., relieved,
relaxed), in which case, happiness can be labeled as
serenity (Gable and Harmon-Jones, 2008).
+ felt
power, −
position
power
+ serenity Switzerland Swiss 79
9
Booker, C. L., Skew, A. J.,
Kelly, Y. J., and Sacker, A.
(2015). Media use, sports
participation, and well-being
in adolescence:
Cross-sectional ﬁndings from
the UK household
longitudinal study.
American
journal of
public health,
105(1),
173–179.
6 self-report
items using
overall
happiness scale
4899 participants
from the UK (Age
Range = 10–15;
49% Female, 51%
Male).
Heavy screen-based media (SBM) use associated
with less happiness. Greater participation in sports
was associated with higher happiness. The authors
determined happiness with life from six
questions on how young people felt about
schoolwork, their appearance, their family,
friends, school, and life as a whole. They
observed a linear relationship between greater
sports participation and happiness.
+ participa-
tion in
sports, −
heavy
screen-
based
media
UK British 126
10
Cameron, P ., Titus, D. G.,
Kestin, J., and Kestin, M.
(1973). The life satisfaction of
nonnormal persons.
Journal of
Consulting
and Clinical
Psychology,
41(2), 207–214.
Self-report
questionnaire
46 participants
from the USA
(Age Range = 6–19
years; 50%
Females, 50%
Males).
Greater happiness was found among handicapped
youth vs. control. Male handicapped participants
were more frequently happy in both the academic
and recess settings. Happiness is a “state of being”
concept (Osorio, 1966).
+ handi-
capped
youth
USA American 83
11
Catalino, L. I., Algae, S. B.,
and Fredrickson, B. L. (2014).
Prioritizing positivity: An
effective approach to
pursuing happiness?
Emotion,
14(6),
1155–1161.
Valuing
Happiness
Scale (VHS)
235 participants
from the USA
(Age Range =
21–64 years; 76%
Female, 24%
Male).
High in prioritizing positivity predicted positive
emotions and greater happiness. The integrative
model of sustainable happiness (Lyubomirsky,
Sheldon, and Schkade, 2005), in which a genetic
set point, circumstances, and intentional activities
make up a person’s chronic level of happiness,
suggesting that engaging in pleasant activities
may be the most effective route to increasing
happiness.
+ positive
emotions,
pleasant
activities
USA American 79
12
Chadwick, A. E., Zoccola, P .
M., Figueroa, W. S., and
Rabideau, E. M. (2016).
Communication and stress:
Effects of hope evocation and
rumination messages on heart
rate, anxiety, and emotions
after a stressor.
Health com-
munication,
31(12),
1447–1459.
Self-report item
using 5-point
Likert Scale
127 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 19.50,
SD = 1.63, Age
Range = 18–27
years; 50% Female,
50% Male)
Rumination-inducing messages led to less
happiness. Hope-inducing messages led to greater
happiness. Hope evocation messages should
increase other positive emotions, such as
happiness. The six emotion scales used were hope
(hopeful, optimistic, encouraged), fear (fearful,
worried, afraid, anxious, scared, distressed), guilt
(guilty, ashamed, embarrassed, remorseful),
sadness (sad, sorrowful, dreary, blue, down),
happiness (happy, glad, pleased, cheerful, joyful),
and anger (angry, mad, irritated, annoyed,
frustrated).
−
Rumination-
inducing
message
+ Hope
inducing
message
USA American 73
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 22 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
13
Chatters, L. M. (1988).
Subjective well-being
evaluations among older
Black Americans.
Psychology
and Aging,
3(2), 184–190.
Self-report item
using 3-point
Likert Scale
581 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 19.50,
SD = 1.63, Age
Range = 55 and
older; 63% Female,
37% Male).
Being younger, widowed, or separated from a
spouse, and experiencing high levels of stress and
low levels of health satisfaction had signiﬁcant
direct effects on diminishing happiness.
Happiness was directly inﬂuenced by stress and
reported satisfaction with health. Health and
stress factors are determinants of happiness ratings
− high
stress
− being
younger,
widowed,
separated
from spouse
USA American 46
14
Chaverri, J., Praetorius, R. T.,
and Ruiz, E. (2018). Counselor
happiness: Effects of therapy
work with similar trauma.
Social Work
in Mental
Health, 16(4),
419–435.
Oxford
Happiness
Questionnaire
(OHQ)
153 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 43.35,
SD = 12.3, Age
Range = 22–69
years; 67% Female,
33% Male).
Greater numbers of sessions per client and
decreased posttraumatic stress symptoms were
associated with greater counselor happiness. The
study found that posttraumatic stress and
numbers of client sessions were the most
signiﬁcant predictors of happiness. Happiness has
been linked to work performance, in addition to
improved relationships, income, and long life
(Lyubomirsky, King, and Diener, 2005).
+ decreased
posttrau-
matic stress,
higher
counselor
sessions
USA American 24
15
Datu, J. A. D., Yuen, M., and
Chen, G. (2018). The triarchic
model of grit is linked to
academic success and
well-being among Filipino
high school students.
School
Psychology
Quarterly,
33(3), 428–438.
Interdependent
Happiness
Scale (IHS)
504 participants
from the
Philippines (Mean
Age = 14.19,
SD = 1.55, Age
Range = 22–69 years;
56% Female, 44%
Male).
Grit (perseverance of effort, consistency of
interests, and adaptability to situations) positively
predicted life interdependent happiness. Study 2
showed grit positively predicted life satisfaction,
positive affect, and interdependent happiness. It
also indicates that grit is linked to subjective
well-being, interdependent happiness, and
optimal psychological health. Interdependent
happiness pertains to “global, subjective
assessment of whether one is interpersonally
harmonized with other people, being quiescent,
and being ordinary, and connected to the
collective way of well-being” (Hitokoto and
Uchida, 2015, p. 214).
+ grit,
subjective
well-being,
psychologi-
cal
health
+
interpersonal
harmony,
connected to
the collective
way
Philippines Philippines 63
16
Devins, G. M., Mandin, H.,
Hons, R. B., Burgess, E. D.,
Klassen, J., Taub, K., . . . and
Buckle, S. (1990). Illness
intrusiveness and quality of
life in end-stage renal disease:
Comparison and stability
across treatment modalities.
Health
Psychology,
9(2), 117–142.
Affect Balance
Scale (ABS)
99 participants
from Canada
(Mean Age = 41,
42% Female, 58%
Male).
Higher levels of happiness were found among
home dialysis patients vs. compared to in-center
hemodialysis patients. Increased levels of
perceived illness intrusiveness (its impact on
quality of life) were signiﬁcantly associated with
decreased happiness. Quality of life was
conceptualized as involving three facets,
including satisfaction/happiness,
pessimism/illness-related concerns, and
depression/distress. Correlations for the
satisfaction/happiness indicators showed that
increased levels of perceived intrusiveness were
signiﬁcantly associated with decreased levels of
life satisfaction, r(95) = −0.25, p < 0.025, positive
affect, r(95) = −0.24, p < 0.05, and self-esteem,
r(95) = −0.37, p < 0.01.
+ home
dialysis,
satisfaction,
−
perceived
illness,
illness-
related
concerns,
depression,
distress
− increased
levels of
intrusiveness
Canada Canadian 74
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 23 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
17
Dewar, A. J., and Kavussanu,
M. (2012). Achievement goals
and emotions in team sport
athletes.
Sport,
Exercise,
and Perfor-
mance
Psychology,
1(4),
254–267.
The Sport
Emotion
Questionnaire
(SEQ)
358 participants
from the UK (34%
Female, 66%
Male).
Task involvement was positively associated with
happiness. The results showed that task
involvement was related to happiness, pride, and
hope positively, and these relationships were
mediated by perceived performance. Ego
involvement was positively related to happiness
(Dewar and Kavussanu (2011)).
+ task in-
volvement,
pride, hope,
ego in-
volvement
UK British 48
18
Diener, E., Colvin, C. R.,
Pavot, W. G., and Allman, A.
(1991). The psychic costs of
intense positive affect.
Journal of
personality
and social
psychology,
61(3),
492–503.
Self-report item
using 7-point
Likert Scale
192 participants
from the USA
(Age Range = 18
and above; 48%
Female, 52%
Male).
Persons’ valence success at a task predicted greater
happiness when they succeeded but greater
unhappiness when they failed.
+ value of
success at a
task, −
failure at a
task
USA USA 120
19
Durand, G. (2018).
Demystiﬁcation of the
relationship between
psychopathy and happiness.
Journal of
Happiness
Studies,
19(2),
381–395.
Subjective
Fluctuating
Happiness
Scale (SFHS)
and Subjective
Authentic–
Durable
Happiness
Scale (SA-DHS)
597 participants
from Europe, the
USA, Asia/Middle
East, Africa,
Canada (Mean
Age = 24.19,
SD = 5.28; 45%
Female, 55%
Male).
Psychopathic personality traits—Fearless
dominance was positively correlated with higher
durable happiness and correlated negatively with
ﬂuctuating happiness. Impulsive antisociality was
negatively correlated with durable happiness and
correlated positively with ﬂuctuating happiness.
Research indicates that happiness, or affective
well-being, is related primarily to the frequency,
not to the intensity, of positive affect (PA). Fearless
dominance (PPI-I) was positively correlated with
higher durable happiness, the presence of
meaning in life, personal growth, and hope, and
correlated negatively with ﬂuctuating happiness.
Durable happiness includes characteristics such
as contentment and inner peace. Fluctuating
happiness represents a sudden increase in
happiness, followed by a sudden decrease.
+ psycho-
pathic
personality
traits
+
contentment,
inner peace,
−
antisociality
Europe,
USA,
Asia,
Middle
East,
Africa,
Canada
European,
American,
Asian,
Middle
Easter,
African,
Canadian
82
20
Efklides, A., Kalaitzidou, M.,
and Chankin, G. (2003).
Subjective quality of life in
old age in Greece: The effect
of demographic factors,
emotional state, and
adaptation to aging.
European
Psycholo-
gist, 8(3),
178–191.
Life Satisfaction
Index
160 participants
from Greece (Age
Range = 63–100
years; 50% Female,
50% Male).
More health problems and perceived seriousness of
the health problems/effects associated with less
happiness. Happiness is deﬁned as a transient
mood state of enthusiasm and joy that reﬂects the
person’s affect with respect to his/her current state
(Campbell et al., 1976).
+ joy,
enthusiasm,
− more
health
problems,
Greece Greece 55
21
Fry, M. D., Guivernau, M.,
Kim, M. S., Newton, M.,
Gano-Overway, L. A., and
Magyar, T. M. (2012). Youth
perceptions of a caring
climate, emotional regulation,
and psychological well-being.
Sport,
Exercise,
and Perfor-
mance
Psychology,
1(1), 44–57.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
395 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 11.80,
SD = 1.54, Age
Range = 9–16
years; 50% Female,
50% Male).
Negative and positive affective self-regulatory
efﬁcacyand caring climate were positively
associated with happiness. Hope has been
positively associated with academic performance,
positive thinking, and adaptive coping methods. In
a similar vein, happiness refers to the extent that
individuals perceive that they are in broad general
terms a more happy or unhappy person (Snyder
et al., 1991).
+ self-
regulatory
efﬁcacy,
positive
thinking,
adaptive
coping
+ academic
perfor-
mance
+ caring
climate USA American 48
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 24 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
22
Fujita, F., Diener, E., and
Sandvik, E. (1991). Gender
differences in negative affect
and well-being: the case for
emotional intensity.
Journal of
personality
and social
psychology,
61(3), 427–434.
Self-report item
using 6-point
Likert Scale
136 participants
from the USA
(Age Range = 18
and above; 48%
Female, 52%
Male).
Women with higher affective intensity than men
were as happy as men. Gender accounted for less
than 1% of the variance in happiness. Diener,
Sandvik, Pavote, and Gallagher have shown that
to the extent that people with a high need for
approval report higher levels of happiness.
+ affective
intensity,
high need
for
approval
USA American 120
23
Fullen, M. C., Richardson, V .
E., and Granello, D. H. (2018).
Comparing successful aging,
resilience, and holistic
wellness as predictors of the
good life.
Educational
Gerontology,
44(7), 459–468.
Self-report item
using 3-point
Likert Scale
200 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 73.72,
SD = 9.05, Age
Range = 55 and
above; 84%
Female, 16%
Male).
Holistic wellness (physical, social, emotional,
spiritual, contextual, occupational) and resilience
predicted greater happiness. In this study, 8.5% of
the sample met modiﬁed criteria for successful
aging (SA) and were used as a comparison group
with those who did not meet the criteria. Overall,
holistic wellness and resilience predicted
happiness, life satisfaction, and physical health
better than SA alone.
+ Holistic
wellness,
physical
wellness,
emotional
wellness,
resilience,
physical
health
+ occupa-
tional
wellness
+ social
wellness,
contextual
wellness,
successful
aging
USA American 29
24
Galambos, N. L., Fang, S.,
Kahn, H. J., Johnson, M. D.,
and Lachman, M. E. (2015).
Up, not down: The age curve
in happiness from early
adulthood to midlife in two
longitudinal studies.
Developmental
Psychology,
51(11),
1664–1671.
Self-report item
using 3-point
Likert Scale
968 participants
from Canada (Age
Range = 18 and
above; 47%
Female, 53%
Male).
There was an upward trend in the trajectory of
happiness from early adulthood to midlife.
Happiness, an indicator of subjective well-being,
contributes to thriving in work, relationships, and
health, as well as longevity (Hoppmann, Gerstorf,
Willis, and Schaie, 2011; Lyubomirsky, King, and
Diener, 2005). Diener et al. (1999) argued that
happiness is an accumulation of positive
emotions. Other scholars have characterized
happiness as a balance of positive to negative
affect (Ryff, 1989), positive affect experienced on a
given day (Stone et al., 2010), and happiness with
life (Helliwell, Layard, and Sachs, 2013). Authors
label the measure (e.g., happiness, positive affect,
life satisfaction, well-being).
+ health,
longevity,
positive
emotion,
balance in
emotions,
life
satisfaction,
well-being
+ work
+
relationships,
early
adulthood,
Canada Canadian 87
25
Gerstorf, D., Hülür, G.,
Wagner, G. G., Kunzmann, U.,
and Ram, N. (2018). Terminal
change across facets of
affective experience and
domain satisfaction:
Commonalities, differences,
and bittersweet emotions at
the end of life.
Developmental
psychology,
54(12),
2382–2402.
Self-report item
using 7-point
Likert Scale
864 participants
from Germany
(Mean Age = 75
years, SD = 12.5;
41% female, 59%
Male).
Suffering from a more severe disability was
associated with less happiness. Higher BMI was
associated with steeper declines in happiness.
Participants living with a partner were happier
with family life throughout their last years.
Happiness is elicited during goal pursuit and
attainment (Lazarus, 1991). Higher perceived
personal control over one’s life was associated
with more frequent feelings of happiness and
more satisfaction with health, leisure, and family
life one year prior to death.
−
suffering,
severe
disability,
higher BMI,
satisfaction
with health
+ goal
pursuit,
attainment
of goals,
higher
personal
control
over one’s
life,
+ living with
a partner,
leisure,
family life
Germany German 87
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 25 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
26
Gilbert, P ., McEwan, K.,
Catarino, F., Baiao, R., and
Palmeira, L. (2014). Fears of
happiness and compassion in
relationship with depression,
alexithymia, and attachment
security in a depressed
sample.
British
Journal of
Clinical
Psychology,
53(2),
228–244.
Fear of
Happiness
Scale
52 participants
from the UK
(Mean Age = 48.38,
SD = 13.75, Age
Range = 21–70
years; 69% Female,
31% Male).
Fears of happiness were highly positively
correlated with alexithymia, depression, anxiety,
and stress. Multiple regression analysis revealed
that fear of happiness was the best predictor of
depression, anxiety, and stress.
− fears,
alex-
ithymia,
depression,
anxiety,
stress
UK British 44
27
Ha, Y. M., and Hwang, W. J.
(2014). Gender differences in
internet addiction associated
with psychological health
indicators among adolescents
using a national web-based
survey.
International
Journal of
Mental
Health and
Addiction,
12(5),
660–669.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
56,086 participants
from Korea (Mean
Age = 15.2,
SD = 0.02, Age
Range = 12–18 years;
49% Female, 51%
Male).
Internet addiction was signiﬁcantly related to
subjective unhappiness. Subjective happiness is
deﬁned as thepsychological state of well-being, joy,
and contentment (Lyubomirsky 2001). As expected,
poor self-rated health, subjective happiness, and
depressive symptoms were signiﬁcantly
correlated with Internet addiction in both genders.
− internet
addiction,
psychologi-
cal
well-being,
content-
ment, joy,
− poor
health
Korea Korean 102
28
Haczy ´ nski, J. (2016). Happy
and Healthy Aging. The
Analysis of the Relationship
Between Age, Health,
Education and Happiness on
International Social Survey
Programme Data.
Problemy
Zarz ˛ adza-
nia, 14 (60),
24–39.
Self-report item
using 4-point
Likert Scale
45,680 participants
across the globe
(Europe, the Far
East, South
America, and
Africa), Age
Range = 50 and
younger, 50 and
older.
Happiness showed a downward trend in the older
age groups. Women declared a lower level of
happiness compared to men in post-socialist
countries. Positive emotions or subjective
happiness could have better impacts on health
and quality of life (Frey, 2002). According to that
study, happiness depends on three sets of factors:
• Demographic and personality factors such as
age, gender, and family; • Economic factors, in
particular unemployment, income, and inﬂation;
• Political factors such as the extent of
possibilities for citizens to participate in politics,
and the degree of governmental decentralization,
circumstances, as well as nationality, education,
and health.
+ positive
emotions,
subjective
happiness,
health
+
education,
− unem-
ployment,
inﬂation,
quality of
life, govern-
ment
decentral-
ization,
+ citizens’
participation
in politics,
nationality −
older age
groups
women in
post-socialist
countries
Europe,
Far East,
South
America,
and
Africa
European,
Far
Eastern,
South
American,
and
African
15
29
Hegarty, R. S., Treharne, G. J.,
Stebbings, S., and Conner, T.
S. (2016). Fatigue and mood
among people with arthritis:
Carry-over across the day.
Health
Psychology,
35(5),
492–499.
Self-report item
using 10-point
Likert Scale
142 participants
from New
Zealand (Mean
Age = 65.60,
SD = 10.90, Age
Range = 20–84 years;
68% Female, 32%
Male).
Higher fatigue earlier in the day predicted lower
happiness. The results showed that happiness
increased at mid-morning and then plateaued.
The following equation provides an example,
where T equals Time, and T + 1 equals the
subsequent time point: Happiness T + 1 = P0 +
P1(Fatigue) + P2(PainT) + P3(Happiness) + P4 +
Frustration T +
− higher
fatigue,
New
Zealand
New
Zealanders 74
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 26 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
30
Jamrozik, A., Oraa Ali, M.,
Sarwer, D. B., and Chatterjee,
A. (2019). More than skin
deep: Judgments of
individuals with facial
disﬁgurement.
Psychology of
Aesthetics,
Creativity,
and the Arts,
13(1), 117–129.
Self-
Assessment
Manikin
9-point pictorial
scale
145 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 35.39;
43% Female, 57%
Male).
People with “disﬁgurements” were subjectively
judged as less happy. The authors suggested that
people with “disﬁgurements” are perceived as
having “fewer desirable personality traits” (e.g.,
emotional stability, conscientiousness), internal
attributes (e.g., happiness, intelligence), and social
attributes (e.g., trustworthiness, popularity).
+
emotional
stability,
conscien-
tiousness,
intelli-
gence; −
“disﬁgure-
ment”,
“less
desirable”,
personality
traits
+
popularity
+ trustworthi-
ness USA American 61
31
Jopp, D., and Rott, C. (2006).
Adaptation in very old age:
Exploring the role of
resources, beliefs, and
attitudes for centenarians’
happiness.
Psychology
and Aging,
21(2), 266–280.
Life Satisfaction
Index
179 participants
from Germany
(Age Range = 90
and above; 89%
Female, 11%
Male).
Job training, cognition, health, social network, and
extraversion explained a substantial proportion of
variance in happiness. As determinants of
happiness, several resources have been
investigated. Basic resources (i.e., job training,
cognition, health, social network, extraversion)
explained a substantial proportion of variance in
happiness.
+ health,
cognition,
extraver-
sion
+ job
training
+ social
network Germany German 46
32
Krause, N., Pargament, K. I.,
and Ironson, G. (2017). Does a
religious transformation
buffer the effects of lifetime
trauma on happiness?
The
International
Journal for
the
Psychology of
Religion,
27(2), 104–115.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
2851 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 46.5,
SD = 17.6, Age
Range = 18 and
above; 56%
Female, 44%
Male).
The relationship between lifetime trauma and
happiness was fully moderated for people who
experienced a religious transformation. The data
indicated that the magnitude of the relationship
between lifetime trauma and happiness is
reduced signiﬁcantly for people who have had a
religious transformation but not for those who
have not had this type of religious experience.
(Charoenwong et al., 2017; Starbuck, 1901)—both
studies found positive relationships between
religious transformations and happiness, but both
studies rely on convenience samples.
− lifetime
trauma
+ religious
transforma-
tion
USA American 27
33
Krause, N., Pargament, K. I.,
Hill, P . C., and Ironson, G.
(2016). Humility, stressful life
events, and psychological
well-being: Findings from the
landmark spirituality and
health survey.
The Journal
of Positive
Psychology,
11(5), 499–510.
Self-report item
using 3
indicators
3010 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 46.3,
SD = 17.7, Age
Range = 18 and
older; 56% Female,
44%).
The negative relationship between stressful life
events and happiness was reduced among people
who were humbler. The data indicate that stress
signiﬁcantly reduces happiness among the study
participants with the lowest observed humility
score (β = −0.429; p < 0.001).
+ humility,
− stressful
life
USA American 87
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 27 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
34
Kugbey, N., Atefoe, E. A.,
Anakwah, N., Nyarko, K., and
Atindanbila, S. (2018).
Emotional intelligence and
personal growth initiative
effects on subjective
happiness among university
students.
Journal of
Psychology in
Africa, 28(4),
261–266.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
260 participants
from Ghana
(Mean Age = 21.72,
SD = 3.61; 70%
Female, 30%
Male).
Emotional intelligence and personal growth
initiative were positively associated with subjective
happiness. The ﬁndings suggest that students’
ability to manage and utilize their emotions, as
well as their personal growth initiative, contribute
signiﬁcantly to their level of happiness. It is
deﬁned by both happiness (which reﬂects the
affective component of well-being) and life
satisfaction (which reﬂects the cognitive
component of well-being) (Diener, Suh, and
Lucas, 1999; Ngamaba, 2016).
+
emotional
intelli-
gence,
well-being,
life
satisfaction,
managing
emotions
+ personal
growth Ghana Ghanian 26
35
Kumar, M. V . (2015).
Emotional expressivity,
loneliness, and subjective
happiness as predictors of
psychological wellbeing
among the elderly.
Indian
Journal of
Health and
Wellbeing,
6(12),
1169–1173.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
60 participants
from India (Age
Range = 60 and
above; 50%
Female; 50%
Male).
Psychological well-being was signiﬁcantly
positively associated with subjective happiness.
The results showed a signiﬁcant positive
relationship between subjective happiness and
psychological well-being.
+ psycho-
logical
well-being,
subjective
happiness
India Indian 24
36
Lathia, N., Sandstrom, G. M.,
Mascolo, C., and Rentfrow, P .
J. (2017). Happier people live
more active lives: Using
smartphones to link
happiness and physical
activity.
PLoS ONE,
12(1),
e0160589.
Self-Report
using Affect
Grid on
Smartphone
App
12,838 participants
from the UK (Age
Range = 15–44
years; 43% Female,
54% Male, 3%
Unknown).
Individuals who are more physically active are
happier. We examined the relationship between
physical activity (measured broadly) and
happiness using a smartphone application. The
ﬁndings reveal that individuals who are more
physically active are happier. This research
suggests that not only exercise but also
non-exercise physical activity is related to
happiness. Happiness correlated positively with
laughing, r(9164) = 0.21, p < 0.001, d = 0.43, and
negatively with crying, r(9164) = −0.18, p < 0.001,
d = 0.38.
+
physically
active,
exercise,
non-
exercise
physical
activity,
laughter
UK British 278
37
Lobos, G., Mora, M., del
Carmen Lapo, M., Caligari, C.,
and Schnettler, B. (2015).
Happiness and health and
food-related variables:
Evidence for different age
groups in Chile.
Suma
Psicológica,
22(2), 120–128.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
1163 participants
from China (Age
Range = 20 to 65
years; 65% Female;
35% Male).
People with more unhealthy days, a poorer
perception of their health, and less satisfaction with
their food-related lives were less happy.
Health-related factors and satisfaction with
food-related life (SWFL) are strong predictors of
happiness. Happiness in the sense of a personal
attribute can serve as a proxy for well-being
(Raibley, 2012). We deﬁne happiness as the degree
to which someone positively evaluates the overall
quality of his or her present, ‘life as a whole’
(Veenhoven, 1984).
−
unhealthy
days,
poorer
perception
of health
+ holistic
life
− less
satisﬁed with
food-related
life
China Chinese 32
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 28 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
38
Lucas, R. E. (2007). Long-term
disability is associated with
lasting changes in subjective
well-being: evidence from
two nationally representative
longitudinal studies.
Journal of
personality
and social
psychology,
92(4), 717–730.
Self-report item
using 10-point
Likert Scale
679 participants
from Germany
(Mean Age = 53.63;
45% Female, 55%
Male).
Disability was associated with moderate to large
drops in happiness over time. Findings have led
some to suggest that people are able to adapt to
almost any life circumstance and that long-term
levels of happiness cannot change. Disabilities
can have strong effects on people’s happiness.
−
disability Germany German 120
39
Matsunaga, M., Masuda, T.,
Ishii, K., Ohtsubo, Y.,
Noguchi, Y., Ochi, M., and
Yamasue, H. (2018). Culture
and cannabinoid receptor
gene polymorphism interact
to inﬂuence the perception of
happiness.
PLoS ONE,
13(12), 1–17
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
259 participants
from Japan (Mean
Age: 19.51, Age
Range: 18−28
years; 61% Female,
39% Male) and 181
participants from
Canada (Mean
Age: 19.47, Age
Range: 17−28
years; 78% Female,
22% Male).
Culture and CNR1 polymorphism interacted to
inﬂuence the perception of happiness. The
subjective happiness level was the highest in
Japanese individuals with the CC genotype,
whereas in Canadian participants, it was the
highest in individuals with the TT genotype.
Furthermore, the effects of the CNR1 genotype on
situation-speciﬁc happiness were also different
between the groups. Happiness accompanied by
being surrounded by happy people was the highest
among Japanese individuals with the CC genotype,
whereas among Canadian individuals, it was the
highest in TT genotype carriers. Genotypes on
happiness might differ among different cultures
because the concept of happiness varies by culture.
In Japan, favorable external circumstances
determine the concept of happiness, and in Canada,
the concept of happiness centers on positive
feelings.
+ positive
feelings,
+ culture,
surrounded
by happy
people,
favorable
external
circumstances
Japan Japanese 278
40
Mujcic, R., and J. Oswald, A.
(2016). Evolution of
well-being and happiness
after increases in
consumption of fruit and
vegetables.
American
Journal of
Public Health,
106(8),
1504–1510.
Self-report item
using 6-point
Likert Scale
12,385 participants
from Australia
(Age Range =
15–93).
Increased fruit and vegetable consumption was
predictive of increased happiness. Increased fruit
and vegetable consumption was predictive of
increased happiness, life satisfaction, and
well-being. The regression equations reveal that
fruit and vegetable consumption in the current
year is predictive of higher well-being—measured
either as life satisfaction or as happiness—in the
future even after control for current well-being.
+ life-
satisfaction,
well-being
+ increased
fruit and
vegetable
consumption
Australia Australian 126
41
Murphy, D. A., Armistead, L.,
Marelich, W. D., Payne, D. L.,
and Herbeck, D. M. (2011).
Pilot trial of a disclosure
intervention for HIV+
mothers: The TRACK
program.
Journal of
consulting
and clinical
psychology,
79(2), 203–214.
Happiness and
Satisfaction
Scale
80 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 8.7,
SD = 2.0, Age
Range = 6–12
years; 37% Female,
63% Male).
Children of mothers living with HIV who
underwent the Teaching, Raising, Additionally,
Communicating with Kids (TRACK) program
exhibited increases in happiness. For those in the
intervention group, happiness increased and
greater freedom from anxiety was noted from
baseline to 3 months.
+ greater
freedom
from
anxiety
+ children
with mothers USA American 83
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 29 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings with
the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
42
Ogle, C. M., Rubin, D. C., and
Siegler, I. C. (2013). The
impact of the developmental
timing of trauma exposure on
PTSD symptoms and
psychosocial functioning
among older adults.
Developmental
psychology,
49(11),
2191–2209.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
1995 participants
from the USA
(mean Age = 60.83,
SD = 1.57; 31%
Female, 69%
Male).
Older adults who experienced traumatic events
during childhood vs. after the transition to
adulthood exhibited lower subjective happiness.
Older adults whose most distressing trauma
occurred during childhood reported lower
subjective happiness (M = 5.11, SD = 1.18)
compared to those whose most distressing trauma
occurred in young adulthood (M = 5.44, SD = 1.10),
midlife (M = 5.48, SD = 1.08), and older adulthood
(M = 5.51, SD = 1.00). The mean (SD) for the
adolescence exposure group was 5.27 (1.17).
Similar results emerged for psychosocial indices
associated with successful adaptation following
trauma exposure, including subjective happiness,
social support, and coping ability.
− older
adults with
traumatic
experiences
+ subjective
happiness,
coping
ability
+ social support USA American 87
43
Peltzer, K., and Pengpid, S.
(2017). Dietary consumption
and happiness and
depression among university
students: A cross-national
survey.
Journal of
Psychology
in Africa,
27(4),
372–377.
Four-item
Happiness
Scale
18,522 participants
from 28 countries
from Asia, Africa,
and the Americas
(Mean Age = 20.9,
SD = 2.4, Age
Range = 17–30
years; 58% Female,
42% Male).
The amount of fruit and vegetable consumption
was positively associated with happiness. The
inﬂuence of fruit and vegetable consumption,
sociodemographic, and health-related factors on
happiness and depression scores were analyzed
with a series of multiple linear regression models.
The results indicate that the amount of fruit and
vegetable consumption was positively associated
with happiness and inversely associated with
depression.
+ health-
related
factors, −
depression
+ fruit and
vegetable
consumption,
sociodemo-
graphic
factors
28
countries
from
Asia,
Africa,
and the
Americas
29
cultures
from
Asia,
Africa,
and the
Americas
26
44
Pishgar, F., Soleyman-Jahi, S.,
Pishgar, F., Eftekhar Ardebili,
H., Jamal, A., and Arab, A.
(2016). Level of happiness
and its determining factors in
pregnant women: a
cross-sectional study.
Journal of
Reproduc-
tive and
Infant
Psychology,
34(5),
431–441.
Oxford
Happiness
Question-
naire
(OHQ)
200 participants
from Iran (Mean
Age = 28.71,
SD = 4.73; 100%
Female).
Most pregnant women, maternal age (21–40), and
no smoking history independently correlated with
higher happiness. Happiness provides a positive
attitude toward life, a healthy mental status,
emotional balance, hope for the future, and better
sleep (Sabatini, 2014).
+ no-
smoking
history,
healthy
mental
status,
emotional
balance,
better sleep,
positive
attitude
towards
life
+ hope for
the future
+ pregnant
women,
maternal age
Iran Iranian+L35:
L36 41
45
Ren, Q., and Ye, M. (2017).
Losing children and mental
well-being: evidence from
China.
Applied
Economics
Letters,
24(12),
868–877.
Center for
Epidemiologi-
cal Studies
Depression
Scale (CES-D
Scale)
27,992 participants
from China (Mean
Age = 61.77,
SD = 9.7, Age
Range = 45 and
older; 50% Female,
50% Male).
The bereavement of a child was associated with
lower levels of happiness. The bereavement of a
child is associated with lower levels of mental
health and happiness and higher levels of
loneliness, and these effects are stronger when all
their children are lost.
− lower
levels of
mental
health
− los-
ing/bereavement
of a child,
higher levels of
loneliness
China Chinese 52
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 30 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
46
Richards, J., Jiang, X., Kelly,
P ., Chau, J., Bauman, A., and
Ding, D. (2015). Don’t worry,
be happy: cross-sectional
associations between physical
activity and happiness in 15
European countries.
BMC public
health, 15(1),
1–16
Self-report item
using 6-point
Likert Scale
11,637 participants
from 15 European
countries (Age
Range = 15 and
older).
Increasing physical activity volume was associated
with higher levels of happiness. Happiness is an
example of a positive construct of mental health
that may be promoted by physical activity and
could increase resilience to emotional
perturbations. Logistic regression was used to
examine the association between happiness and
physical activity volume adjusted for sex, age,
country, general health, relationship status,
employment, and education. Happiness was also
associated with “a lot” of leisure physical activity
(OR = 1.15 [1.02–1.30])
+
increasing
physical
activity,
positive
construct of
mental
health,
resilience,
lot of
leisure
activity,
general
health
+ employ-
ment,
education
+ country, sex,
relationship
status
15
European
Countries
16 Eu-
ropean
Cul-
tures
131
42
Ogle, C. M., Rubin, D. C., and
Siegler, I. C. (2013). The
impact of the developmental
timing of trauma exposure on
PTSD symptoms and
psychosocial functioning
among older adults.
Developmental
psychology,
49(11),
2191–2209.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
1995 participants
from the USA
(mean Age = 60.83,
SD = 1.57; 31%
Female, 69%
Male).
Older adults who experienced a traumatic event
during childhood vs. after the transition to
adulthood exhibited lower subjective happiness.
Older adults whose most distressing trauma
occurred during childhood reported lower
subjective happiness (M = 5.11, SD = 1.18)
compared to those whose most distressing trauma
occurred in young adulthood (M = 5.44, SD = 1.10),
midlife (M = 5.48, SD = 1.08), and older adulthood
(M = 5.51, SD = 1.00). The mean (SD) for the
adolescence exposure group was 5.27 (1.17).
Similar results emerged for psychosocial indices
associated with successful adaptation following
trauma exposure, including subjective happiness,
social support, and coping ability.
− older
adults with
traumatic
experiences
+ subjective
happiness,
coping
ability
+ social
support USA American 87
47
Rocca, C. H., Kimport, K.,
Roberts, S. C., Gould, H.,
Neuhaus, J., and Foster, D. G.
(2015). Decision rightness and
emotional responses to
abortion in the United States:
A longitudinal study.
PLoS ONE,
10(7), 1–16
Self-report item
using 8-point
Likert Scale
667 participants
from the USA
(Age Range = 15
and older; 100%
Female).
Women with more planned pregnanciesand who
had more difﬁculty deciding to terminate
experienced lower levels of happiness when it
came to deciding about abortions. The
participants completed semiannual phone surveys
to assess whether they felt that having the
abortion was the right decision for them; negative
emotions (regret, anger, guilt, sadness) about the
abortion; and positive emotions (relief,
happiness).
− negative
emotions,
regret,
anger, guilt,
sadness, +
relief
− women
with planned
pregnancies,
deciding to
terminate
pregnancies,
abortions
USA American 278
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 31 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
48
Saki, N., Yadollahpour, A.,
Moniri, S., Karimi, M., Bayat,
A., Abshirini, H., and
Nikakhlagh, S. (2017).
Investigating the impacts of
cochlear implantation on the
happiness and self-esteem of
mothers of children with
severe hearing loss.
International
Journal of
Mental
Health and
Addiction,
15(2), 288–294.
Oxford
Happiness
Questionnaire
(OHQ)
40 participants
from Iran (Mean
Age = 27, SD =
5.2).
Cochlear implantation surgery increases happiness
in mothers of children with hearing loss. A
signiﬁcant difference was observed between the
happiness and self-esteem scores before and after
surgery (p < 0.001). Cochlear implantation surgery
increases happiness and self-esteem in mothers of
children with hearing loss.
+ cochlear
implanta-
tion
surgery
+
self-esteem Iran Iranian 102
49
Seligman, M. E., Steen, T. A.,
Park, N., and Peterson, C.
(2005). Positive psychology
progress: empirical validation
of interventions.
American
psychologist,
60(5), 410–421.
Steen
Happiness
Index (SHI)
577 participants
from the USA
(Age Range = 35 to
54 years; 58%
Female, 42%
Male).
Three positive psychology interventions— gratitude
visits, three good things in life, using signature
strengths in a new way—increased happiness.
Fulﬁlling—contributes to individual fulﬁllment,
satisfaction, and happiness broadly construed
better-deﬁned routes to “happiness” (Seligman,
2002): (a) positive emotion and pleasure (the
pleasant life); (b) engagement (the engaged life);
and (c) meaning (the meaningful life).
+ positive
psychology
interven-
tions,
positive
emotions,
pleasure
+ good
things in
life, en-
gagement,
meaningful
life
+ gratitude
visit USA American 142
50
Stasolla, F., Caffò, A. O.,
Perilli, V ., Boccasini, A.,
Damiani, R., and D’Amico, F.
(2018). Fostering locomotion
ﬂuency of ﬁve adolescents
with Rett syndrome through a
microswitch-based program:
contingency awareness and
social rating.
Journal of De-
velopmental
and Physical
Disabilities,
30(2), 239–258.
Behavioral
Measure-
recording
indices of
happiness, i.e.,
smiling,
laughing,
excited,
energized body,
arm and leg
movements
with or without
vocalizations.
5 participants
from Italy (Age
Range = 13–17
years.
Use of a microswitch-based program for Rett
syndrome (promotes locomotion ﬂuency)
increased happiness. Researchers usually refer to
behavioral signs of happiness (i.e., smiling,
laughing, excited body, and arms and leg
movements with or without vocalizations)
labeling them indices of happiness and
considering them as an outcome measure of the
participants’ quality of life.
+
microswitch-
based
programs,
quality of
life
+ quality of
life Italy Italian 30
51
Van Tongeren, D. R., and
Burnette, J. L. (2018). Do you
believe happiness can
change? An investigation of
the relationship between
happiness mindsets,
well-being, and satisfaction.
The Journal
of Positive
Psychology,
13(2), 101–109.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
277 participants
from the USA
(39% Female, 61%
Male).
Encouraging growth mindsets led to stronger
beliefs in the changeable nature of happiness.
Happiness growth mindsets were associated with
greater well-being and greater relationship
satisfaction. In the current work, we extend the
implicit theory framework to happiness to foster a
more complete understanding of the processes
underlying well-being appraisals and subsequent
satisfaction with relationships, jobs, and life more
generally. Happiness is associated with
well-being and related satisfaction outcomes.
+ growth
mindsets,
greater
well-being
+
satisfaction
outcomes
+ stronger
beliefs,
greater
relationship
satisfaction
USA American 87
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 32 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
52
Veni, R. K., Gomes, R. F., and
Aurora, A. P . (2018).
Differences in happiness and
emotional intelligence among
adolescents and adults.
Indian
Journal of
Health and
Wellbeing,
9(1), 115–117.
Oxford
Happiness
Questionnaire
(OHQ)
150 participants
from India (Age
Range = 13 and
older).
No signiﬁcant differencewas found in the
happiness levels between adolescents and adults.
Happiness is about our lives as a whole; it includes
the ﬂuctuating feelings we experience every day
but also our overall satisfaction with life. It is
inﬂuenced by our genes, upbringing, and our
external situation. However, crucially, it is also
heavily inﬂuenced by our choices, our inner
attitudes, how we approach our relationships, our
personal values, and our sense of purpose.
Happiness is the sum over a lifetime of all speciﬁc
feelings (Kahneman, 1999).
+ inner
attitudes
+ the
external
situation,
positive
choices,
sense of
purpose
+ upbringing,
relationships,
personal
values
India Indian
53
Witvliet, C. V ., Richie, F. J.,
Root Luna, L. M., and Van
Tongeren, D. R. (2019).
Gratitude predicts hope and
happiness: A two-study
assessment of traits and
states.
The Journal
of Positive
Psychology,
14(3), 271–282.
Keyes’s
Flourishing
Scale
181 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 20.07,
SD = 1.19, Age
Range = 17–27
years; 83% Female,
17% Male).
Grateful remembering practices bolstered present
happiness. Happiness is the enjoyment of a
present good. In the stepwise hierarchical
regression analysis reported, forgivingness (β =
0.24, p = 0.004), self-control (β = 0.23, p < 0.002),
and patience (β = 0.04, p = 0.656) together
accounted for 15% of happiness scores.
+ gratitude
practices
+ gratitude
practices, USA Chinese 87
54
Yue, X. D., Liu, K. W. Y., Jiang,
F., and Hiranandani, N. A.
(2014). Humor styles,
self-esteem, and subjective
happiness.
Psychological
reports,
115(2),
517–525.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
227 participants
from China (Mean
Age = 20.90,
SD = 1.7, Age
Range = 18–28
years; 59% Female,
41% Male).
Adaptive humor styles (afﬁliative humor and
self-enhancing humor) signiﬁcantlypredicted
subjective happiness. Maladaptive humor styles
(aggressive humor and self-defeating humor) did
not strongly predict subjective happiness.
Adaptive humor styles (afﬁliative humor and
self-enhancing humor) signiﬁcantly predicted
self-esteem and subjective happiness. Subjective
happiness was positively associated with
afﬁliative humor (β = 0.20) and self-enhancing
humor (β = 0.39).
+
afﬁrmative
humor
China Chinese 54
55
Zhang, S., Zhang, H., Qiu, Z.,
and Tang, H. (2017). Effects of
a positive psychological
intervention on the mental
health and happiness of
patients undergoing in vitro
fertilization.
Biomedical
Research, 28
(9): 4020–4025.
Memorial
University of
Newfoundland
Scale of
Happiness
(MUNSH)
200 participants
from China (100%
Female).
A positive psychological intervention improved the
happiness of patients undergoing in vitro
fertilization (IVF). The total happiness score,
positive affect score, and positive experience score
were signiﬁcantly higher. Thus, a positive
psychological intervention can improve the
mental health and happiness of patients
undergoing IVF and improve the clinical
pregnancy rate.
+ positive
psychologi-
cal
interven-
tions,
positive
experience,
mental
health
China Chinese 35
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 33 of 68
Table A1. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 67
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
56
Ziapour, A., Khatony, A.,
Jafari, F., and Kianipour, N.
(2018). Correlation of
Personality Traits with
Happiness among University
Students.
Journal of
Clinical and
Diagnostic
Research,
12(4), 26–29.
Oxford
Happiness
Questionnaire
(OHQ)
400 participants
from Iran (Age
Range = 18–26
years; 38% Female,
62% Male).
There was a signiﬁcantpositive relationship
between happiness and extraversion,
agreeableness, neuroticism, conscientiousness, and
openness to experiences. The results of correlation
analyses demonstrated that there was a signiﬁcant
positive relationship between happiness
(p < 0.001) and each of the personality trait
dimensions of extraversion (p < 0.001, r = 0.594),
agreeableness (p < 0.001, r = 0.431), neuroticism
(p < 0.001, r = 0.368), conscientiousness (p < 0.001,
r = 0.351), and openness to experiences (p < 0.001,
r = 0.151). According to the theory of personality
by Eysenck SB et al., happiness is a personality
variable for which a biological basis can be
considered [26].
+ extraver-
sion,
agreeable-
ness,
openness to
experience,
conscien-
tiousness,
− neuroti-
cism
Iran Iran 71
Table A2. Hope and Happiness, ﬁnal count (N = 23).
Health Hope Harmony 42
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
1
Abu-Raiya, H., Pargament,
K. I., Krause, N., and
Ironson, G. (2015). Robust
links between
religious/spiritual
struggles, psychological
distress, and well-being in
a national sample of
American adults.
American
Journal of Or-
thopsychiatry,
85(6), 565.
Self-Report 2208 American
adults.
All ﬁve types of the religious/spiritual struggles
assessed (i.e., divine, demonic, interpersonal, moral,
ultimate meaning) correlated signiﬁcantly
negatively with happiness. Correlational analysis
revealed that all the ﬁve types of the struggles
assessed (*, i.e., divine, demonic, interpersonal,
moral, ultimate-meaning) correlated signiﬁcantly
positively with both depressive symptoms and
generalized anxiety, and signiﬁcantly negatively
with both satisfaction with life and happiness.
− religious.
Spiritual
struggles,
moral
struggles,
interpersonal
struggles,
divine
struggles,
demonic
struggles
America American 54
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 34 of 68
Table A2. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 42
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
2
Adelmann, P . K. (1987).
Occupational complexity,
control, and personal
income: Their relation to
psychological well-being in
men and women.
Journal of
Applied
Psychology,
72(4), 529.
1976 Cross-
Sectional
National
Survey
948 American adults
(Age Range = 21 and
over; 35% female,
65%).
More education, higher personal income, and
greater occupational control were related to
increased happiness (in men), and increasing age
was related to lower happiness (in women).
Stepwise regression results indicate that
occupational characteristics (higher occupational
complexity, control, and personal income) explain a
small but signiﬁcant proportion of variance in each
measure of psychological well-being controlling for
the effects of age and education. Occupational
characteristics also explain a signiﬁcant proportion
of variance in self-conﬁdence for both men and
women and in happiness for men.
+ more
education,
higher
personal
income,
greater oc-
cupational
control
− increasing
age America American 118
3
Aknin, L. B.,
Barrington-Leigh, C. P .,
Dunn, E. W., Helliwell, J. F.,
Burns, J., Biswas-Diener, R.,
. . . and Norton, M. I. (2013).
Prosocial spending and
well-being: Cross-cultural
evidence for a
psychological universal.
Journal of
Personality
and Social
Psychology,
104(4), 635.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHC)
627 students from
Canada (n = 140; Mean
age = 19.95, SD = 3.91,
54% Females, 46%
Male) and Uganda
(n = 487;
Mean age = 21.71,
SD = 2.55; 24% and
72% Females, 76% and
28% Males in two
separate universities).
Testing for causality showed that prosocial spending
was consistently associated with greater happiness.
Cross-cultural research has shown that the
within-country correlations between how much
money individuals make, and their happiness may
vary according to a country’s average income (e.g.,
Deaton, 2008; Diener and Biswas-Diener, 2002). This
suggests that the link between how individuals
spend that money, and their happiness might also
differ between poor and wealthy countries.
+ earnings + pro-social
spending Canada Canadian 120
4
Burrow, A. L., and Hill, P . L.
(2011). Purpose as a form of
identity capital for positive
youth adjustment
Developmental
psychology,
47(4), 1196.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHC)
107 Students from the
USA (Mean
age = 15.74, SD = 1.85;
51% Female, 49%
Male).
Purpose commitment was positively associated with
happiness. In the study (n = 110 + n = 398), purpose
commitment was positively associated with hope
and happiness among adolescents and emerging
adults, and indices of well-being. The results
showed that purpose commitment fully mediated
the relationship between identity and changes in
daily positive and negative affect. Overall, the
ﬁndings suggest that cultivating a sense of purpose
in life contributes to well-being.
+ purpose,
commit-
ment
+ stable
identity USA American 87
5
Emanuel, A. S., Howell, J.
L., Taber, J. M., Ferrer, R. A.,
Klein, W. M., and Harris, P .
R. (2018). Spontaneous
self-afﬁrmation is
associated with
psychological well-being:
Evidence from a US
national adult survey
sample.
Journal of
Health
Psychology,
23(1),
95–102.
Self-report
item using
5-point Likert
Scale)
3185 American
participants (Mean age
= 47.12, SD = 1.13; 52%
Female, 48% Male; 67%
White, 33%
Black/Hispanic/Others).
Engaging in spontaneous self-afﬁrmation was
related to greater happiness. Engaging in
spontaneous self-afﬁrmation was related to greater
happiness, hopefulness, optimism, subjective
health, personal health efﬁcacy, and less anger and
sadness. People who were more likely to
spontaneously self-afﬁrm reported more positive
and less negative affect including greater happiness,
b = 0.14, 95% conﬁdence interval (CI) = [0.08, 0.22],
SE = 0.03, t = 4.28, partial = 0.52, p < 0.01.
+ optimism,
subjective
health,
personal
health
efﬁcacy,
less anger,
less
sadness,
self-
afﬁrmation,
+ hopeful-
ness Americas Americas 79
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 35 of 68
Table A2. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 42
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
6
Fordyce, M. W. (1983). A
program to increase
happiness: Further studies.
Journal of
Counseling
Psychology,
30(4), 483.
Happiness
Measures
(HM)
112 American
students (Mean
age = 24.5 years,
Range = 16–22
years; 54% Female,
46% Male).
A training program in happiness that centered on
fundamentals including keeping busy, spending
more time socializing, developing positive thinking,
and working on a healthy personality demonstrated
signiﬁcant happiness increases in a control group
receiving summary instructions in the program. In
philosophy, in psychological theory, and for the
average individual, personal happiness is generally
held to be the aim of all human endeavor.
Happiness has come to be deﬁned as something
much broader in scope than a temporary mood state.
Bradburn (1969) hypothesized happiness to be the
resulting balance of all positive and negative
emotional experiences over a period. Happiness is
an emotional state of well-being, and the feeling
goes by many names (contentment, fulﬁllment,
self-satisfaction, joy, peace of mind, etc.).
+
developing
positive
thinking,
healthy
personality,
balance of
positive
and
negative
emotions,
well-being,
content-
ment,
self-
satisfaction,
joy
+ keeping
busy,
fulﬁllment
+ spending
more time
socializing,
peace of mind
America America 78
7
Kamarova, S.,
Chatzisarantis, N. L.,
Hagger, M. S., Lintunen, T.,
Hassandra, M., and
Papaioannou, A. (2017).
Effects of achievement
goals on perceptions of
competence in conditions
of unfavourable social
comparisons: The mastery
goal advantage effect.
British Journal
of Educational
Psychology,
87(4), 630–646.
Two
self-report
items on
19-point
semantic
differential
scale.
201 students
(Mean age = 22.53,
SD = 6.51;
Range = 17–55;
72% Female, 28%
Male).
Mastery-approach goals facilitated higher levels of
happiness with task performance than
performance-approach goals in conditions of
unfavorable social comparisons. The interactive
effects between performance-approach goals and
normative information were statistically signiﬁcant
in the two regression analyses that aimed to predict
competence or happiness with task performance.
+ mastery
approach
goals, task
perfor-
mance
−
unfavorable
social
comparisons
Greece Greek 56
8
Kavˇ ciˇ c, T. and Avsec, A.
(2014). Happiness and
pathways to reach it:
Dimension-centered versus
person-centered approach.
Social
Indicators
Research, 118(1),
141–156.
Orientations
to Happiness
Question-
naire
(OTHQ)
1142 Adult
participants from
Slovenia (Mean
age = 38.2 years,
SD = 15.90,
Range = 18 to 91
years; 67% Female,
33% Male).
Orientation to pleasure, meaning, and engagement
(dimension-centered approach) was positively
associated with happiness. The theory of Seligman
(2002) offers three possibilities—happiness can be
reached through pleasure, meaning, or engagement.
+ pleasure
+ engage-
ment,
meaning
Slovenia Slovenian 77
9
Kim, J., Kim, M., and Park,
S. H. (2016). Exploring the
relationship among
posttraumatic growth, life
satisfaction, and happiness
among Korean individuals
with physical disabilities.
Psychological
Reports, 119(1),
312–327.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHC)
212 participants
from Korea
(Range = 14 to 62
years; 23% Female,
77% Male).
The recognition of new possibilities and personal
strength predicted happiness. The results of the
regression analysis conﬁrmed the research
hypothesis that factors of posttraumatic growth are
positively associated with life satisfaction and
happiness for individuals with physical disabilities.
+ personal
strength,
posttrau-
matic
growth for
individuals
with
physical
disabilities
+
recognition
of new pos-
sibilities
Korea Korean 54
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 36 of 68
Table A2. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 42
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
10
Kirkcaldy, B., Furnham, A.,
and Siefen, G. (2004). The
relationship between
health efﬁcacy, educational
attainment, and well-being
among 30 nations.
European
Psychologist,
9(2), 107–119.
World
Database of
Happiness
Quarter of a
million high
school students
from 32 countries
participated in the
survey
(Age = 15-year-
olds).
Nations with better scholastic achievement
performances (mathematics, reading, and scientiﬁc
literacy) displayed higher happiness scores.
Happiness was consistently related to the three
literacy scores (reading, mathematical, and scientiﬁc
literacy), the magnitude of the association being
highest for reading literacy. Veenhoven (2000)
concluded that health care has only a minimal
impact on subjectively perceived happiness.
Veenhoven (2003) reports a total of 330 empirical
studies focusing on happiness catalogued in his
World Database of Happiness. The construct of
well-being and happiness can be assessed simply by
asking people to provide an overall judgment of
their feeling of happiness (general appraisal of life)
or well-being. Veenhoven’s database of happiness
scores for those nations included in the current
study reveal that those nations with the highest
ratings for subjectively perceived happiness include
Iceland, followed by Sweden, Australia,
Switzerland, Ireland, and the USA. The nations
scoring lowest were Russia, Hungary, Brazil,
Portugal, Poland, Mexico, and Greece. Veenhoven
(2003) lists research ﬁndings on satisfaction with life
as a whole. From this collection, we used average
happiness in nations (means), and
happiness-adjusted life years (a combination of
average happiness and life expectancy, analogous to
disability-adjusted life years).
+ health
care,
feelings of
happiness/well-
being
+ better
scholastic
achieve-
ment
32
coun-
tries
33
countries 55
11
Moza, D., Maricut,oiu, L.,
and Gavreliuc, A. (2019).
Cross-lagged relationships
between self-esteem,
self-construal, and
happiness in a three-wave
longitudinal study.
Journal of
Individual
Differences,
40(3), 177.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHC)
101 Romanian
undergraduates.
Self-esteem is an antecedent of happiness.
Cross-cultural research established that an
interdependent construal of the self is associated
with higher self-esteem, which in turn, is associated
with increased happiness. Structural equation
modeling analyses veriﬁed that self-esteem is an
antecedent of both happiness and dimensions of
independent self-construal. One’s positive
evaluation of self-worth precedes one’s
self-perception of being a happy and independent
person.
+ self-
perception
of being
happy
+
self-esteem,
one’s
positive
evaluation
of
self-worth,
indepen-
dence
Romania Romanian 31
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 37 of 68
Table A2. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 42
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
12
Nelson, S. K., Layous, K.,
Cole, S. W., and
Lyubomirsky, S. (2016). Do
unto others or treat
yourself? The effects of
prosocial and self-focused
behavior on psychological
ﬂourishing.
Emotion,
16(6), 850.
Affect
Adjective
Scale
(AAS)
472 Adults from
the USA (Mean
age = 29.95,
SD = 11.47; 60%
female, 40%
Male).
Prosocial actions (acts of kindness towards others)
led to greater increases in happiness than
self-focused actions and neutral behaviors.
Mounting evidence suggests that being kind to
others (i.e., engaging in prosocial behavior)
consistently leads to increases in happiness (Aknin,
Hamlin, and Dunn, 2012; Alden and Trew, 2013;
Chancellor, Jacobs Bao, and Lyubomirsky, 2015;
Layous, Lee, Choi, and Lyubomirsky, 2013;
Lyubomirsky, Sheldon, and Schkade, 2005;
Mongrain, Chin, and Shapira, 2011; Nelson et al.,
2015; Otake, Shimai, Tanaka-Matsumi, Otsui, and
Fredrickson, 2006; Pressman, Kraft, and Cross, 2015;
Sheldon, Boehm, and Lyubomir-sky, 2012; Weinstein
and Ryan, 2010). Hedonic and eudaimonic
well-being represent two different ways of pursuing
happiness rather than two different types of
happiness (Kashdan, Biswas-Diener, and King,
2008). We use the terms happiness, well-being, and
ﬂourishing interchangeably.
+ hedonic
and eudai-
monia
well-being
+ self-
focused
actions
+ prosocial
actions,
prosocial
behavior
USA American 79
13
Parks, A. C., Della Porta, M.
D., Pierce, R. S., Zilca, R.,
and Lyubomirsky, S. (2012).
Pursuing happiness in
everyday life: The
characteristics and
behaviors of online
happiness seekers.
Emotion,
12(6), 1222.
Authentic
Happiness
Inventory
(AHI)
912 adults (Mean
age = 45.51,
SD = 12.43;
Range = 21–83;
77% Female, 23%
Male; 87%
Caucasian, 13%
Asian/Asian-
American/Black/
Hispanic/Native
American/Mixed
or unspeciﬁed
ethnicity).
Characteristics and Behaviors—Higher rates of
current depression were associated with higher
levels of happiness seeking. Most activities
endorsed by happiness seekers were nurturing
social relationships, practicing acts of kindness,
pursuing goals, practicing religion and/or
spirituality, using strategies to cope with stress or
adversity, avoiding overthinking and social
comparison, practicing meditation, goal evaluation
and tracking, and savoring the moment. Happiness
is more than just a personally important goal or a set
of pleasant mood states; a meta-analysis of 225
cross-sectional, longitudinal, and experimental
studies found that happiness is related to, precedes,
and causes a variety of favorable life outcomes
(Lyubomirsky, King, and Diener, 2005). The present
studies suggest that real-world happiness strategies
have observable unique characteristics and that it is
indeed possible to begin to assess the beneﬁts of
such practices in real time using innovative
technologies. Gratitude journalling, thinking
optimistically, remembering happy days, and
strengthening social relationships.
+ coping
with stress,
gratitude
journal,
thinking
optimisti-
cally,
remember-
ing happy
days, −
depression
+ pursuing
goals, goal
evaluation,
favorable
life
outcomes,
− adversity
+ nurturing
social
relationships,
acts of
kindness,
practicing
religion,
spirituality,
practicing
meditation,
strengthening
social
relationships,
− social
comparisons,
savoring the
moment,
Asian/
Asian-
American/
Black/
Hispanic/
Native
Ameri-
can/
Mixed or
unspeci-
ﬁed
ethnicity
Asian/
Asian-
American/
Black/
Hispanic/
Native
American/
Mixed or
unspeciﬁed
ethnicity
79
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 38 of 68
Table A2. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 42
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
14
Rana, S., Hariharan, M.,
Nandine, D., and Vincent,
K. (2014). Forgiveness: A
determinant of adolescents’
happiness.
Indian Journal
of Health and
Wellbeing, 5(9),
1119–1123.
Oxford
Happiness
Question-
naire
(OHQ)
200 Indian
adolescents (100
early adolescents;
Age
Range = 13–15,
47% Female, 53%
Male, 100 late
Adolescents; Age
Range = 18–20;
63% Female, 37%
Male).
There was a signiﬁcant positive contribution of
forgiveness (self, others, situation) that led to greater
happiness. Age was also a signiﬁcant factor for
happiness as older adolescents were higher in
forgiveness vs. younger adolescents. The results
revealed that there were signiﬁcant contributions of
forgiveness and its domains on the happiness of
adolescents. Happiness was a composite of life
satisfaction (Diener, Lucas, and Scollon, 2006),
coping resources (Lyubomirsky, King, and Diener,
2005), positive emotions (Fredrickson, 1998),
desirable life outcomes in physical, psychological,
social, and spiritual domains in every phase of the
life span.
+ age,
positive
emotions,
desirable
outcomes
in physical
domain,
desirable
outcomes
in psycho-
logical
domain
+ forgiveness,
desirable life
outcomes in
social
domain,
desirable
outcomes in
spiritual
domain
India Indian
15
Rego, A. (2009). Do the
opportunities for learning
and personal development
lead to happiness? It
depends on work-family
conciliation.
Journal of
Occupational
Health
Psychology,
14(3), 334.
Affective
Well-Being
Scale (AWB)—
Portuguese
version
404 individuals
from Portugal
(Mean age = 27.9
years, SD = 4.7;
27% Female, 73%
Male).
Higher perceptions on both
variables—opportunities for learning and personal
development and work—family conciliation predict
higher happiness. Pathways to happiness vary
across cultures (Diener, Oishi, and Lucas, 2003;
Haller and Halder, 2006). Scholars tend to treat
happiness as subjective well-being or psychological
well-being.
+
subjective
well-being,
psychologi-
cal
well-being
+ opportu-
nities for
learning,
personal de-
velopment
+
work–family
conciliation
Portugal Portuguese 104
16
Šeboková, G., Uhláriková,
J., and Halamová, M. (2018).
Cognitive and social
sources of adolescent
well-being: Mediating role
of school belonging.
Studia
Psychologica,
60(1), 16–29.
EPOCH
Measure of
Adolescent
Well-being
139 Slovak
students (Mean
age = 15.63,
SD = 1.15; 67%
Female, 33%
Male).
School belonging mediated the association between
social and academic competence and students’
concurrent happiness. The results suggested that
perceived higher cognitive competence applied in
schoolwork is associated with higher belonging to
school, which in turn leads to a greater general sense
of connectedness, optimism, and happiness in
adolescents.
+ cognitive
compe-
tence,
optimism
+ academic
competence
+ school
belonging,
social
competence,
sense of con-
nectedness
Slovak Slovakian 15
17
Singh, S., and Devender, S.
(2015). Hope and
mindfulness as correlates
of happiness.
Indian Journal
of Positive
Psychology, 6(4),
422.
Oxford
Happiness
Question-
naire
(OHQ)
180 students from
India (Age
Range = 18 to 24
years; 44% Female,
56% Male).
Hope and mindfulness shared a positive
relationship with happiness. Hope, or a hopeful
attitude, and mindfulness are signiﬁcant
contributors to happiness. No signiﬁcant gender
difference between hope, mindfulness, and
happiness was found. The results revealed a
positive relationship between hope, mindfulness,
and happiness. Happiness is a mental state of
positive emotions ranging from contentment to
intense joy, which are the characteristics of
well-being.
+ mindful-
ness,
positive
emotions,
content-
ment, joy.
Well-being
+ hope India Indian 18
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 39 of 68
Table A2. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 42
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
18
Terrill, A. L., Müller, R.,
Jensen, M. P ., Molton, I. R.,
Ipsen, C., and Ravesloot, C.
(2015). Association
between age, distress, and
orientations to happiness
in individuals with
disabilities.
Rehabilitation
psychology,
60(1), 27.
Orientations
to Happiness
Question-
naire
(OTHQ)
508 Adults from
the USA (Mean
age = 62 years,
SD = 16.25,
Range = 19 to 99
years; 60% Female,
40% Male).
Greater distress (behavioral health) was associated
with lower global happiness. Middle-aged and
younger people with disabilities may be particularly
affected by lower levels of happiness. Enhancing
psychological strengths and resources that an
individual can use increased happiness and
well-being (Seligman, Steen, Park, and Peterson,
2005).
− distress,
disabilities
+
enhancing
psychologi-
cal
strengths,
well-being
USA American 43
19
Teshale, S. M., and
Lachman, M. E. (2016).
Managing daily happiness:
The relationship between
selection, optimization, and
compensation strategies
and well-being in
adulthood.
Psychology and
Aging, 31(7),
687.
Fordyce
Emotions
Question-
naire
(FEQ)
145 Adults from
the USA (Mean
age = 50.53,
SD = 19.17; Age
Range = 22–94;
60% Female, 40%
Male).
The greater use of selection, optimization, and
compensation strategies (SOC)—elective selection
(choosing a particular goal or set of goals to pursue),
loss-based selection (selecting goals in the face of
resource loss), optimization (enhancing or acquiring
resources to achieve a goal), and compensation
(reallocating resources towards another goal to
maintain functioning at a speciﬁc level)—was
related to greater happiness. Older and middle-aged
adults showed a signiﬁcant positive relationship
between daily SOC usage and happiness. Baseline
life satisfaction signiﬁcantly predicted daily
happiness. The results of this study indicate that
everyday selective optimization and compensation
usage are related to same-day happiness.
+ optimiza-
tion,
compensa-
tion,
having set
of goals to
pursue,
baseline
life
satisfaction
+ positive
relationships USA American 46
20
Vázquez, J. J., Panadero, S.,
and Rivas, E. (2015).
Happiness among poor
women victims of intimate
partner violence in
Nicaragua.
Social work in
public health,
30(1), 18–29.
Structured
interview
with
illustrative
ﬁgures on a
7-point scale.
136 Nicaraguan
women (Mean
age = 31.67,
SD = 8.921; 100%
Female).
Most of the women in poverty/victims of intimate
partner violence (IPV) who showed an optimistic
future outlook and higher feelings of social support
showed greater happiness. Happiness associated
with social relations. Various studies highlight the
existence of a positive relationship between
happiness and level of income (Andrews, 1986;
Diener, Sandvik, Seidlitz and Diener, 1993; Oswald,
1997) and note that the individual’s personal
ﬁnancial situation may play an important role in
accounting for happiness (Rojas, 2011). Social
relationships and stable ties with family, friends,
partners, and community are to a large extent
predictors of subjective well-being and overall
happiness (Diener and Seligman, 2002; Gustavsson
et al., 2012). The highest percentage of happy
women were those who had never ﬁled an ofﬁcial
complaint against their partner.
+
subjective
well-being
+
optimistic
outlook,
level of
income,
personal
ﬁnancial
situation
+ feelings of
social
support,
social
relations,
stable family,
stable friends,
stable partner,
community
Nicaragua Nicaraguan 28
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 40 of 68
Table A2. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 42
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score (h5
Median)
21
Warr, P . (2018).
Self-employment, personal
values, and varieties of
happiness–unhappiness.
Journal of
Occupational
Health
Psychology,
23(3), 388.
European
Social Survey
(ESS)
2304 Individuals
(Mean age = 47.16;
30% Female, 70%
Male).
Job satisfaction in self-employed workers vs.
organizational workers related to greater happiness.
Seligman (2020) introduces the notion of ‘authentic
happiness’ deriving from the use of one’s personal
strengths and virtues to achieve goals that have
intrinsic value beyond mere pleasure, and
subsequently, (Seligman, 2011) preferred the label
ﬂourishing, and parallel perspectives have used the
term self-realization (Waterman, 1993) and
self-validation (Warr, 2007).
+ job
satisfaction,
self-
employment,
organized
work,
personal
strengths,
goal
achieve-
ment,
intrinsic
goals, self-
realization
UK British 104
22
Watson, G. (1930).
Happiness among adult
students of education.
Journal of
Educational
Psychology,
21(2), 79.
Happiness
Question-
naire
338 Students from
the USA (Mean
age = 30).
Factors contributing to happiness were the
enjoyment of and success in work, good health in
childhood, popularity, success in dealing with
people, marriage, election to ofﬁces, the love of
nature, and serious hard-working living. Three
major factors of unhappiness were: failure in love,
the expectancy of loneliness in old age, fears, and
shyness. The individual is called happy if he
believes himself happier than most others of like
age and sex, if he believed his prevailing moods
cheerful, his spirits high, his satisfaction lasting, his
days full of interesting and amusing things, his
prevalent attitude described by such words as
‘enthusiastic’, ‘jolly’, ‘tranquil’, etc.
+ good
health, −
fears,
shyness,
enthusiasm,
joy
+
enjoyment
of work,
success at
work,
popularity,
success in
dealing
with
people,
election to
ofﬁce, hard-
working
living
+ marriage,
love of nature,
tranquility, −
failure in
love,
loneliness in
old age
USA American 103
23
Xiang, Y., Wu, H., Chao, X.,
and Mo, L. (2016).
Happiness and social
stratiﬁcation: A layered
perspective on
occupational status.
Social Behavior
and Personality:
an international
journal, 44(11),
1879–1888.
Self-report
item using
6-point Likert
Scale)
9940 Chinese
participants
(Mean age = 42.69
years, SD = 14.38,
Range = 15 to 64
years; 55% Female,
45% Male).
Higher occupational status corresponded to greater
happiness. Overt occupational characteristics of
power and occupational prestige and covert
characteristics of justice, self-conﬁdence, and mental
health were signiﬁcant as objective social factors
promoting happiness. Through a survey, we found
that higher occupational status corresponded to
greater happiness. Our results further conﬁrm that
happiness can be stratiﬁed based on occupational
status, and our ﬁndings add to understanding of the
mechanism behind how occupational status affects
happiness.
+ higher oc-
cupational
status
China Chinese 51
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 41 of 68
Table A3. Harmony and Happiness, ﬁnal count (N = 76).
Health Hope Harmony 74 Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
1
Aber, J. L., Belsky, J., Slade,
A., and Crnic, K. (1999).
Stability and change in
mothers’ representations of
their relationship with
their toddlers.
Developmental
Psychology,
35(4), 1038.
Parent De-
velopment
Interview
(PDI)
125 parents from
the USA (Mean
ages females and
males = 28.4 and
30.6 years).
Positive mothering led to increased joy and pleasure.
Stability analysis suggested a dynamic relationship
between mothers’ representations of joy, pleasure,
coherence, and anger.
+ increased
joy,
pleasure
+ positive
mothering,
dynamic
relationship
between
mothers
USA American 87
2
Addai, I., Opoku-Agyeman,
C., and Amanfu, S. K.
(2014). Exploring predictors
of subjective well-being in
Ghana: A micro-level
study.
Journal of
Happiness
Studies, 15(4),
869–890.
World
Values
Survey
(WVS)
1533 individuals
from Ghana/Sub-
Saharan Africa
(Mean Age = 33.86;
SD = 14.07; Age
Range = 16 to 90
years; 49% Female,
51% Male).
Personal happiness was predicted by economic
(upper income), upper social class, social capital
(freedom of choice and honesty), community
engagement, perceived good health status, active
religious involvement/regular attendance to religious
services, and ethnicity/culture (Akan). The data
reveal that both happiness and life satisfaction
among Ghanaians are shaped by a multitude of
factors including economic, cultural, social capital,
and health variables. The outcome of the study also
establishes the fact that factors predicting subjective
well-being (SWB) at the micro level vary in
Sub-Saharan Africa contexts compared to the
developed world. Collecting information about how
people feel about their own life circumstances has
gained political attention and acceptance in
developed countries. For instance, in November
2010, the newly elected British government
announced that in addition to traditional data such
as income levels or fear of violent crimes, it would
start measuring national happiness. The Atkinson
Foundation released a Canadian Index of Well-being
that focused primarily on non-monetary aspects of
well-being (Brooker and Hyman 2010). SWB is
portrayed as a measure that attempts to capture the
overall sense of well-being, including happiness
and satisfaction in life as a whole and other domains
of life (see Veenhoven, 1991).
+ perceived
good health
status,
health
variables,
subjective
well-being
+ economic
growth,
increase in
income,
freedom of
choice,
economic
capital,
satisfaction
with life
+ increase in
social class,
social capital,
religious
involvement,
regular
attendance to
religious
services,
community
engagement,
active
religious
involvement,
ethnicity,
culture, −
fear of violent
crimes
Ghana, Sub-
Saharan
Africa
Ghanaian,
Sub-Sahara
African
82
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 42 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
3
Adjei, P . O. W., and Agyei,
F. K. (2015). Biodiversity,
environmental health, and
human well-being:
analysis of linkages and
pathways.
Environment,
Development
and
Sustainability,
17(5), 1085–1102.
Short
Depression
Happiness
Scale (SDHS)
236 individuals
from the UK (Age
Range = 18+
years).
Level of ecological diversity derived from a green
environment, diversity of introduced species,
perceived naturalness, density of visitors, and visitors’
age (mature) showed higher levels of happiness. The
paper applies happiness as a measure of well-being
and examines the relationship between human
well-being and the level of quality of biodiversity in
the natural environment. It established that the level
of ecological diversity determines the level of people’s
wellness and happiness derived from a green
environment. Visitors to green spaces with higher
plant diversity receive higher levels of happiness.
Veenhoven (2006) shares the view that when
well-being and happiness are used in a broader sense,
they all stand for the same thing, symbolizing good
life. The well-being component expresses one’s
external happiness, and the contentment conveys one’s
internal happiness.
+ content-
ment
+ external
happiness
+ age,
ecological
diversity,
green
environment,
diversity of
plant species,
perceived
naturalness,
density of
people,
quality of
biodiversity,
ecological
diversity,
green spaces
UK British 87
4
Aftab, M. T., Naqvi, A. A.,
Al-Karasneh, A. F., and
Ghori, S. A. (2018). Impact
of religiosity on subjective
life satisfaction and
perceived academic stress
in undergraduate pharmacy
students.
Journal of
Pharmacy and
Bioallied
Sciences, 10(4),
192.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
242 students from
Saudi Arabia
(Mean age = 20.76
years, SD = 1.3;
61% Female, 39%
Male).
Subjective happiness was positively correlated with
non-organized religious activity and intrinsic
religiosity. Subjective happiness was positively +
correlated with non-organized religious activity and
intrinsic religiosity (p < 0.01). Items related to
subjective happiness investigated the degree of
happiness in relation to various life events.
Non-organized religious activity (NORA) had a
signiﬁcant (p < 0.01) and a moderate positive
correlation with IR (+0.172) and subjective happiness
(+0.182). IR was positively correlated (+0.241) with
subjective happiness with statistical signiﬁcance
(p < 0.01).
+ intrinsic
religiosity,
non-
organized
religious
activity,
positive life
events
Saudi
Arabia
Saudi
Arabian
5
Akin, Ü. and Akin, A.
(2015). Mindfulness and
subjective happiness: The
mediating role of coping
competence.
Ceskoslovenska
Psychologie,
59(4), 359.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
292 university
students from
T urkey (Age
Range = 18 to 29
years).
Subjective happiness was predicted positively by
mindfulness and coping competence. Coping
competence mediated on the relationship between
mindfulness and subjective happiness. The terms of
subjective well-being and happiness are generally
used interchangeably in the literature and refer to the
same experience. On the other hand, subjective
happiness is a balance of positive/negative affect and
overall life satisfaction (Diener, 2000).
+ mindful-
ness,
coping
competence
T urkey T urkish 14
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 43 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
6
Al-Seheel, A. Y. and Noor,
N. M. (2016). Effects of an
Islamic-based gratitude
strategy on Muslim
students’ level of
happiness.
Mental Health,
Religion and
Culture, 19(7),
686–703.
Scale of
Positive and
Negative
Experience
(SPANE) and
Satisfaction
With Life
Scale (SWLS)
60 Muslim
participants from
Malaysia (Mean
Age = 21.85;
SD = 1.22, Age
Range = 19 and 25
years; 84% Female;
16% Male).
Practicing Islamic-based gratitude exercises
(associating blessings with Allah) raised participants’
happiness levels. The results generally supported the
hypothesis that practicing Islamic-based gratitude
exercise would result in higher happiness levels over
time and suggested that the Islamic-based gratitude is
beneﬁcial in raising participants’ happiness levels.
These two terms, happiness and SWB, have been used
interchangeably in the literature (McGillivray and
Clarke, 2006; Reyes-García et al., 2016), but well-being
is a more general term that goes beyond happiness
(Anger, 2008; Dodge, Daly, Huyton, and Sanders, 2012).
+ practicing
Islamic-based
gratitude
exercise
Malaysia Malayan 26
7
Amutio, A.,
Martínez-Taboada, C.,
Hermosilla, D., and
Delgado, L. C. (2015).
Enhancing relaxation states
and positive emotions in
physicians through a
mindfulness training
program: A one-year study.
Psychology,
Health and
Medicine, 20(6),
720–731.
Smith
Relaxation
States
Inventory
(SRSI-3)
42 individuals
from Spain (Mean
Age = 47.31;
SD = 9.42; 57%
Female, 43%
Male).
Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) led to
signiﬁcant improvements in happiness. Positive
emotions and health have been the focus of many
studies, most of them within the ﬁeld of “positive
psychology” (Fredrickson, 2000, 2003; Gander, Proyer,
Ruch, and Wyss, 2013). Relaxation states (R-States)
seem to fall into four categories: basic relaxation
(sleepy, physically relaxed, disengaged, mentally
relaxed, rested/refreshed), positive energy (energized,
happy, thankful/loving, optimistic), core mindfulness
(quiet mind, awareness, acceptance, ﬂow), and
transcendence (awe and wonder, prayerful, reverent,
mystery, timeless. . . ). These positive states are
associated with one’s perception of well-being at work
and increased job performance (Fredrickson, 2003)
+ mindful-
ness, stress
reduction,
positive
energy,
basic
relaxation
+ transcen-
dence Spain Spanish 66
8
Antonucci, T. C. and Israel,
B. A. (1986). Veridicality of
social support: A
comparison of principal
and network members’
responses.
Journal of
Consulting and
Clinical
Psychology,
54(4), 432.
Self-Report
happiness
item using
3-Point Scale
715 participants
from US (Mean
Age = 77; Age
Range = 18 to 95
years; 61% Female,
39% Male).
Veridicality (perception congruence of whether social
support was provided/received) was not signiﬁcantly
related to happiness. Well-being measures described:
life satisfaction, happiness, and negative affect.
+ life
satisfaction US American 83
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 44 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74 Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
9
Bennett, D. L. and Nikolaev,
B. (2017). Economic
freedom and happiness
inequality: Friends or foes?
Contemporary
Economic
Policy, 35(2),
373–391.
World
Values
Survey
(WVS)
1200 participants
from 100 countries
(Age range = 18+).
Less economic freedom was negatively associated with
happiness inequality. Since 1981, the World Values
Survey has polled nearly 100 countries, representing
almost 90 percent of the world’s population. The main
sample contains data on up to 92 countries, spanning
the period 1981–2012 with a total of 198 country-year
observations. It found that economic freedom is
negatively associated with happiness inequality. The
World Database of Happiness, for instance, reports
that more than 9000 happiness studies have been
undertaken, about half of which have been empirical
papers covering up to 164 countries (Veenhoven 2015).
Studying the determinants of the distribution of
happiness is relevant for several reasons. Classical
economists long ago recognized that human behavior
is driven not only by self-interest but also by a
multitude of psychological motives such as the
happiness of others.
+ psycho-
logical
motives
− less
economic
freedom
100
countries
represent-
ing almost
90 percent
of the
world’s
population
101
countries 30
10
Biddle, N. (2014).
Measuring and analyzing
the wellbeing of Australia’s
indigenous population.
Social
Indicators
Research,
116(3),
713–729.
National
Aboriginal
and Torres
Strait
Islander
Social
Survey
(NATSISS)
300 Indigenous
Australians (Age
Range = 15 to 55+
years; 57% Female,
43% Male).
Indigenous Australians were less likely to report
frequent periods of happiness and more likely to
report periods of extreme sadness than the
non-Indigenous population. Indigenous Australians
in remote areas reported higher levels of happiness.
The main ﬁnding is that, when using retrospective
measures, those in remote areas report higher levels of
happiness than those in non-remote areas. After
undertaking a stepwise regression, the Indigenous
status coefﬁcient was statistically signiﬁcant in the
happiness estimations at the 5% level of signiﬁcance
after controlling for age, sex, country of birth, marital
status, family type, and level of education.
+ indigenous
culture Australia Australian 77
11
Binion, G. and Zalewski,
M. (2018). Maternal
emotion dysregulation and
the functional organization
of preschoolers’ emotional
expressions and regulatory
behaviors.
Emotion,
18(3), 386.
Locked
Boxed Task
(Laboratory
Tempera-
ment
Assessment
Battery)
68 mothers and
their 3–4-year-old
children from US
(Mean Age = 48,
SD = 7.6).
Maternal emotion dysregulation was associated with
children displaying more sadness. Maternal
non-supportive emotion socialization responses were
associated with children engaging in more deﬁant
behaviors throughout the task and using less problem
solving in the context of happiness.
+ maternal
emotion
+
socialization US American 79
12
Birchler, G. R. and Webb, L.
J. (1977). Discriminating
interaction behaviors in
happy and unhappy
marriages.
Journal of
Consulting
and Clinical
Psychology,
45(3), 494.
Areas of
Change
Question-
naire
(ACQ)
100 married
couples from the
US.
Unhappily married couples showed a deﬁcit in
problem solving, more unresolved problems, less
involvement with one another in both elective
free-time activities and less shared sexuality.
Unhappily, relative to happily, married couples would
show a deﬁcit in problem solving by indicating
signiﬁcantly more unresolved problems.
− unhappily
married
couples, less
involvement
with one
another, less
shared
sexuality
US American 83
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 45 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
13
Blekesaune, M. (2018). Is
cohabitation as good as
marriage for people’s
subjective well-being?
longitudinal evidence on
happiness and life
satisfaction in the British
household panel survey.
Journal of
Happiness
Studies, 19(2),
505–520.
General
Health Ques-
tionnaire
(GHQ)
10,300 individuals
from Great Britain
(Age Range = 20 to
64 years).
Entering cohabitation is as beneﬁcial as entering
marriage for people’s happiness. The hedonic
adaptation theory (Brickman and Campbell, 1971) and
set-point theory (Diener et al., 2006) suggest that
happiness is an emotional state that is linked to one’s
physiological reactions to life events, whereas
satisfaction is a cognitive evaluation that also depends
on social comparisons with other important reference
groups as well as the individual’s desires, expectations,
and hopes. These ﬁndings indicate that cohabitation
provides similar beneﬁts to marriage regarding
happiness but not how previously never-married
individuals view their overall satisfaction with their
lives. Subjective well-being is investigated as changes
in happiness and life satisfaction associated with
entering cohabitation and marriage among 1436 never
married and 1539 previously married individuals who
were observed in up to 12 waves in the British
Household Panel Survey (BHPS), from about 1997 to
2009.
+
cohabitation,
marriage
Great
Britain
(Ireland,
Scotland,
England)
British
(Irish,
Scottish,
English)
82
14
Brailovskaia, J. and
Margraf, J. (2016).
Comparing Facebook users
and Facebook non-users:
Relationship between
personality traits and
mental health variables–an
exploratory study.
PLoS ONE,
11(12), 1–17.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
790 participants
from Germany
(Mean Age = 23.42;
SD = 5.02, Age
Range = 17–5; 64%
Female, 36%
Male).
Facebook users had signiﬁcantly higher subjective
happiness. Extraversion, self-esteem, happiness, life
satisfaction, resilience, and social support, on the one
hand, and depression, anxiety, and stress symptoms,
on the other hand, are negatively correlated. Positive
mental health variables, such as happiness, resilience,
life satisfaction, and social support. Positive
(subjective happiness, resilience, life satisfaction,
social support) variables of mental health.
+ extraver-
sion, life
satisfaction,
resilience,
−
depression,
anxiety,
stress
+
self-esteem
+ Facebook
users, social
support
Germany German 278
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 46 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
15
Calvo, R., Arcaya, M.,
Baum, C. F., Lowe, S. R.,
and Waters, M. C. (2015).
Happily, ever after?
Pre-and-post disaster
determinants of happiness
among survivors of
Hurricane Katrina.
Journal of
Happiness
Studies, 16(2),
427–442.
Self-report
item using
4-categories
scale
491 women
survivors from US
(Mean age = 25.2
years, SD = 4.6;
84% Female; 16%
Male).
Happiness signiﬁcantly decreased post-disaster.
Living alone, low perceived social support, exposure to
hurricane stressors (shortage of water/food, etc.), or the
death of a loved one led to decreased happiness
post-disaster. The study investigated pre- to
post-disaster changes in the happiness of 491 women
affected by Hurricane Katrina and identiﬁed factors
that were associated with the survivors’ happiness
after the storm. They found that happiness
signiﬁcantly decreased from pre-disaster to 1-year
post-disaster but there were no signiﬁcant differences
in happiness between the pre-disaster and 4 years
post-disaster assessments. Happiness is only a partial
representation of subjective well-being (Raibley
2012)—a complex concept that lacks universal
deﬁnition, but which is often understood as a personal
assessment of one’s life in general composed of a
long-term cognitive dimension and a temporal
affective dimension (Diener, 1984; Diener et al., 1999;
Lucas et al., 1996).
− living
alone, low
social
support,
death of a
loved one,
exposure to
water/food
shortages
US American 82
16
Chiu, S. W. K. and Wong, K.
T. W. (2018). Happiness of
Hong Kong youth from
2000 to 2014: empirical
evidence on the differential
impact of socioeconomic
conditions on youth versus
other age groups.
Journal of
Youth Studies,
21(3), 253–271.
Hong Kong
Social Image
Survey
(self-report
happiness
item using
4-Point Scale)
11,184 participants
from China (Age
Range = 31 to 51+
years).
Reduced happiness is more signiﬁcant for the youth
than for older people. Rapid economic growth and the
rise in the price of housing have made older people
happier than the youth since the early 2010s. The
change in happiness through the life course is
believed to reﬂect a process of role transition and
adaptation to circumstances. Happiness is derived
from a sense of accomplishment in one’s life.
+ rapid
economic
growth,
rise in the
price of
housing,
sense of
accomplish-
ment in
life
China Chinese 47
17
Chouhan, M. and Gupta, S.
(2015). Effect of resilience
on well-being of Kashmiri
pandit migrants.
Indian Journal
of Health and
Wellbeing, 6(6),
575.
Friedman
Well-Being
Scale (FWBS)
88 Kashmiri
migrants from
India (Age
Range = 35 to 50
years; 50% Female,
50% Male).
Higher resilience was associated with greater joviality
and happiness. Males showed greater joviality and
happiness than females, noting gender effects. Gender
signiﬁcantly affected the three components of
well-being (joviality, happiness, and sociability).
+ higher
resilience,
greater
joviality
+ sociability India Indian
18
de Souto Barreto, P . (2014).
Direct and indirect
relationships between
physical activity and
happiness levels among
older adults: a
cross-sectional study.
Aging & mental health,
18(7), 861–868.
Aging and
Mental Health,
18(7), 861–868.
Single item
measure of
happiness—
self-report
question-
naire.
323 participants
from France
(Mean age = 72.9,
SD = 7.5; Age
Range = 63 to 96
years; 66% Female;
34% Male).
Physical activity was associated with higher levels of
happiness. Higher social functioning mediated the
indirect relationship between physical activity and
greater happiness. A structural equation modeling
(SEM) showed an indirect association between PA and
happiness, which was mediated by participants’ health
status and social functioning.
+ physical
activity
+ higher
social
functioning
France French 73
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 47 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
19
Delhey, J. and Dragolov, G.
(2016). Happier together.
Social cohesion and
subjective well-being in
Europe.
International
Journal of
Psychology,
51(3), 163–176.
European
Quality of
Life Survey.
34,891 participants
from 34 countries
(Age Range = 18
and above).
Pos+ with Facebook users, community. Europeans are
indeed happier and psychologically healthier in more
cohesive societies. Life evaluation is a hedonic
orientation deﬁned as happiness in terms of life
satisfaction (Veenhoven, 2012). Post-materialization of
happiness—the idea of a relative shift in happiness
recipes, away from economic concerns towards
non-economic ones (Delhey, 2010; Wenzel and
Inglehart, 2010). Subsume happiness and life
satisfaction under life evaluation by taking their
arithmetic mean for everyone. According to the
ﬁndings from the qualitative stage of the research,
peaceful and happy living means having comfort and
positive feelings and not having negative feelings.
+ life
satisfaction,
not having
negative
feelings
+ post-
materialization
+ Facebook
users,
community,
cohesive
societies,
peaceful
living
34
coun-
tries
35
countries 45
20
Demirci, ˙I. and Ek¸ si, H.
(2018). Keep calm and be
happy: A mixed method
study from character
strengths to well-being.
Educational
Sciences:
Theory and
Practice, 18(2).
Happy Living
Semi-
Structured
Interview
900 participants
from T urkey
(Mean Age = 30.46;
SD = 12.94; Age
Range = 18 to 75
years; 61% Female,
39% Male).
Sufﬁciency in relationships and trust, personal virtues,
social virtues, acceptance, spirituality, developmental
strength of problems, optimism, nature, health, and
economics, as well as activities and superﬁcial
solutions, constituted sources of happiness. Happiness
was positively correlated with the characteristics of
tolerance, helpfulness, beliefs, spirituality,
responsibility, purposefulness, worthiness, trust, and
reliability. The research has found peace and
happiness to positively correlate with the
characteristics of tolerance, helpfulness, beliefs and
spirituality, responsibility, purposefulness, worthiness,
trust, and reliability.
+ optimism,
health
+
economics
+ sufﬁciency
in
relationships,
trust,
personal
virtues, social
virtues,
acceptance,
spirituality,
nature,
T urkey T urkish 47
21
Edwards-Leeper, L.,
Feldman, H. A., Lash, B. R.,
Shumer, D. E., and
Tishelman, A. C. (2017).
Psychological proﬁle of the
ﬁrst sample of transgender
youth presenting for
medical intervention in a
US pediatric gender center.
Psychology of
Sexual
Orientation and
Gender
Diversity, 4(3),
374.
Archival
Chart Review
56 gender
dysphoric youth
from the US (Age
Range = 8.9 to 17.9
years).
The ﬁrst group of transgender youths to seek medical
interventions in the ﬁrst U.S. interdisciplinary
pediatric gender clinic: older youths experienced
decreased happiness than the younger patients.
Findings suggest youths with gender dysphoria may
experience a progressively lower quality of life, less
happiness, and lower self-esteem as they get older
− transgen-
der youth
seeking
medical in-
tervention,
gender
dysphoria
− lower
self-esteem US American 46
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 48 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
22
El Zein, R., Kobaladze, M.,
and Vacharadze, K. (2016).
Happiness and Well-Being
as Seen by Children and
Young People in Georgia.
Education
Sciences and
Psychology,
42(5).
Individual
and Group
Interviews
20 participants
(Age Range = 10 to
19 years).
Children related the health of their parents and doing
well in school to happiness. Interviews and focus
groups conducted by CRRC-Georgia in November
2014 focuses on the views of children
and young people themselves—their own experiences
and understanding of what well-being and happiness
mean. The ﬁndings of the study are largely not
surprising, with
children relating the health of their parents and doing
well in school to happiness and teenagers relating
increased independence and opportunity as intrinsic
to well-being. Georgia’s research noted differences in
deﬁnitions of happiness and well-being between
children (aged 10–12) and teenagers (aged 15–18)
+ doing
well in
school,
increased
indepen-
dence
+ health of
parents Georgia Georgian 16
23
Elliot, M., Cullen, M., and
Calitz, A. P . (2018).
Happiness among South
African private sector
physiotherapists.
The South
African Journal
of
Physiotherapy,
74(1).
Oxford
Happiness
Question-
naire
(OHQ)
395 respondents
from South Africa
(Age Range = 20 to
40 years; 88%
Female; 12%
Male).
Inﬂuence, social relations, life balance, optimism,
work, and leisure were all positively associated with
happiness levels. The happiness of people can affect
their daily functioning and work performance.
Although researchers and laypeople often deﬁne
happiness as life satisfaction or a sense of well-being,
studies also deﬁne happiness as positive subjective
experiences (Delle Fave et al. 2016; Joshanloo and
Weijers 2014; Scorsolini-Comin and Dos Santos 2010;
Wren-Lewis 2014)
+ life
balance,
optimism
+ work
+ social
relations,
inﬂuence,
leisure
South
Africa
South
African
24
Fleischmann, F. and
Verkuyten, M. (2016). Dual
identity among immigrants:
Comparing different
conceptualizations, their
measurements, and
implications.
Cultural
Diversity and
Ethnic Minority
Psychology,
22(2), 151.
Self-report
happiness
item using
5-Point Scale
70,000 immigrants
from the
Netherlands (Age
Range = 25–45;
51% Female, 49%
Male).
National identiﬁcation, ethnic identiﬁcation,
self-identiﬁcation, strict identity duality, perceived
acceptance, and feeling at home in NL were
signiﬁcantly positively associated with happiness.
Perceived group and personal discrimination were
signiﬁcantly negatively associated with happiness. A
one-item measure assessed how happy participants
are, ranging from 1—very happy to 5—unhappy. The
research recorded higher scores indicated greater
happiness. It investigated how feeling at home in the
Netherlands, and happiness are related. It is crucial for
happiness that both national and ethnic identity are
considered of equal importance. Higher national and
ethnic identiﬁcation are both positively related to
happiness.
+ national
identiﬁcation,
ethnic
identiﬁcation,
self-
identiﬁcation,
strict identity
duality,
perceived
acceptance,
dealing at
home, −
group dis-
crimination,
personal dis-
crimination
Netherlands Netherlander 48
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 49 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
25
Forooshany, S. H. A.,
Yazdkhasti, F., Hajataghaie,
S. S., and Esfahani, M. H. N.
(2014). Infertile individuals’
marital relationship status,
happiness, and mental
health: a causal Model.
International
Journal of
Fertility and
Sterility, 8(3),
315.
Oxford
Happiness
Question-
naire
(OHQ)
155 participants
from Iran (66%
Female; 34%
Male).
Fewer difﬁculties in marital relationship status were
positively related to happiness. A causal model of the
relation between marital relationship status,
happiness, and mental health. Marital relationship
status was directly related to happiness (p < 0.05), and
happiness was directly related to mental health,
(p < 0.05). Happiness, which is an essential dimension
of life and related to functioning and success,
generally is considered to comprise three main
components—frequency and degree of positive affect
or joy; absence of negative feelings, such as depression
or anxiety; and the average level of satisfaction over
a period.
+ less
difﬁculty in
marital
relationship
Iran Iranian
26
Frash, R. E., Jr., Blose, J. E.,
Norman, W. C., and
Patience, M. (2016). Healthy
parks, happy people: An
exploratory study of a
county park system.
Journal of Park
and Recreation
Administration,
34(1).
Self-report
happiness
item using
7-Point Scale
324 participants
from the USA
(Median Age = 39;
60% Female, 40%
Male).
Park visitation, greater diversity of park activities
during one visit, and pleasure with park operations
were factors that stimulated happiness. Happiness is a
quality that nearly all people naturally desire.
Happiness has been shown to have a host of positive
features, including enhanced mental and physical
health, more satisfactory relationships, increased
earning potential, and even longer life. Park activities
and happiness are aspects of leisure and subjective
well-being. There was a positive relationship between
park satisfaction and happiness
+ park
visitation,
greater
diversity of
park
activities,
pleased with
park
operations
USA American 28
27
Frutos, A. M., and Merrill,
R. M. (2017). Viewing
explicit sexual movies was
related to less happiness in
marriage.
Sexuality and
Culture, 21(4),
1062–1082.
General
Social Survey
(GSS)
11,372 participants
from the USA
(Age Range = 18
and above; 55%
Female, 45%
Male).
Viewing explicit sexual movies was related to less
happiness in marriage. Viewing explicit sexual movies
was related to less happiness in marriage. Male
viewers experienced a reduction in the positive effect
of the frequency of sex on happiness (Doran and
Price 2014).
− viewing
explicit
sexual
movies
USA American 37
28
Fu, R. and Noguchi, H.
(2016). Does marriage make
us healthier? Inter-country
comparative evidence from
China, Japan, and Korea.
PLoS ONE,
11(2).
2010 East
Asian Social
Survey.
7938 participants
from China, Japan,
and Korea (Age
Range = 18 to 65+
years).
A higher balanced marriage with intra-couple
education (both husband and wife are well-educated)
demonstrated higher happiness. Couples tend to be
happier when both the husband and the wife are well
educated. The coefﬁcients of happiness are almost
always signiﬁcantly positive in all countries (9.2% in
China, 23.3% in Japan, and 13.6% in Korea), implying
better happiness levels for married people under 50.
+ higher
balanced
marriage,
marriage,
intra-couple
education
China,
Japan,
and
Korea
Chinese,
Japanese,
and
Korean
278
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 50 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74 Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
29
Graham, C. and Pozuelo,
J. R. (2016). Happiness,
Stress, and Age: How the
U-Curve Varies across
People and Places.
Journal of
Population
Economics,
30, 1–29.
World
Happiness
Report
(2015)
9000 participants
from 44 countries
(Age Range = 15+).
A U-shaped relationship was found between age and
happiness (i.e., middle-aged had less happiness). The
timing of the turn varies depending on the average
country-level happiness and on individuals’ positions
in the well-being distribution. There is now much
evidence for a remarkably consistent relationship
between age and happiness. The U-shaped
relationship between age and happiness held in 44 of
the 46 countries. Measures of life satisfaction,
happiness, reported mental illness, and/or daily moods
and experiences—ranging from contentment to stress
and anger—help us understand a range of behaviors,
as well as their welfare beneﬁts or costs, across
individuals, countries, and generations. Numerous
studies have found recurrent patterns between
happiness and life satisfaction (whereas the terms are
often used interchangeably, the latter is a
better-speciﬁed question) and important experiences
such as employment, marital status, and/or earnings.
− mental
illness,
stress,
anger
+
individuals’
position,
employ-
ment,
earnings
− marital
status, middle
age
Albania,
Argentina,
Australia,
Belgium,
Bosnia, Brazil,
Bulgaria,
Canada,
Chile, China,
Colombia,
Croatia,
Cyprus,
Czech
Republic,
Denmark,
Estonia,
Finland,
France,
Germany,
Greece,
Hungary,
India, Ireland,
Italy, Kosovo,
Latvia,
Lithuania.
Macedonia,
Mexico,
Montenegro,
Netherlands,
Peru, Poland,
Portugal,
Romania,
Russia,
Serbia,
Slovakia,
Slovenia,
South Africa,
Spain,
Sweden, UK,
US,
Venezuela
Albanian,
Argentinian,
Australian,
Belgium,
Bosnian,
Brazilian,
Bulgarian,
Canadian,
Chilean,
Chinese,
Colombian,
Croatian,
Cyprus,
Czech,
Denmark,
Estonian,
Finish,
French,
German,
Greek,
Hungarian,
Indian, Irish,
Italian,
Kosovan,
Latvian,
Lithuanian.
Macedonian,
Mexican,
Montenegrin,
Netherlands,
Peru, Polish,
Portuguese,
Romanian,
Russian,
Serbian,
Slovakian,
Slovenian,
South
African,
Spanish,
Swedish,
English,
American,
Venezuelan
55
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 51 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74 Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
30
Gudmundsdóttir, D. G.,
Á sgeirsdóttir, B. B.,
Huppert, F. A.,
Sigfúsdóttir, I. D.,
Valdimarsdóttir, U. A.,
and Hauksdóttir, A.
(2016). How does the
economic crisis inﬂuence
adolescents’ happiness?
Population-based
surveys in Iceland in
2000–2010.
Journal of
Happiness
Studies, 17(3),
1219–1234.
Self-report
item using
4-point
Likert
Scale)
28 adolescents
from Iceland (Age
Range = 14 to 15
years).
Gender, age, family structure, parents’ education, time
spent with parents, and emotional support from
parents altogether explained 13% of the happiness
variance. Emotional support from parents together
with time spent with parents had the largest positive
inﬂuence on happiness. The results indicated that
happiness increased by 5% in the adolescent
population from 2000 to 2010 despite the economic
crisis. The association between socio-demographic
factors and happiness was explored using multiple
linear regression analyses. Bentham deﬁned happiness
in 1789 as “the sum of pleasures and pains” (Bentham
1789/1996) which can be interpreted in the way that
happiness is not only about positive feelings, but also
about how well one copes with obstacles or pain.
+ positive
feeling,
coping
with
obstacles
+ gender, age,
family
structure,
parent’s
education,
time spent
with parents,
emotional
support from
parents, socio-
demographic
factors
Iceland Icelander 82
31
Haj-Yahia, M. M. (2002).
The impact of wife abuse
on marital relations as
revealed by the second
Palestinian National
Survey on Violence
Against Women.
Journal of
Family
Psychology,
16(3), 273.
Marital
Happiness
Scale
(MHS)
1686 women from
Palestine (Mean
age = 31.5 years,
SD = 9.1,
Range = 17 to 69
years; 100%
Female).
Abused wives (physically abused, psychologically
abused, sexually abused, and/or economically abused)
expressed lower levels of both harmony and
happiness. A survey (conducted from June to August
1995) also investigated some psychological effects of
such experiences (i.e., low self-esteem, depression, and
anxiety; Haj-Yahia, 2000a) as well as some marital
effects (i.e., commitment, communication, satisfaction,
affection, harmony, and happiness). Palestinian
women were hypothesized to be psychologically,
physically, sexually, and economically abused (as the
main predictor variables of the study); the lower their
levels of marital commitment, the more negative were
their patterns of communication with their husbands,
and the lower were their levels of marital satisfaction,
affection, happiness, and harmony (as the main
criterion variables of the study).
−
physically
abused,
psychologi-
cally
abused,
sexually
abused,
depression,
anxiety
− economi-
cally
abused,
low
self-esteem
+ marital
commitment,
− lower
harmony,
negative com-
munication
with
husbands
Palestine Palestinian 52
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 52 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
32
Hart, E. A. C., Lakerveld,
J., McKee, M., Oppert, J.
M., Rutter, H., Charreire,
H., . . . and Brug, J. (2018).
Contextual correlates of
happiness in European
adults.
PLoS ONE,
13(1).
Self-report
happiness
item using
5-Point
Scale
6037 Participants
from Europe
(Mean age = 52.1,
SD = 16.3; 55%
Female; 45%
Male).
Neighborhoods with higher levels of aesthetics, more
water, more green space, perceived as safer, and greater
function were associated with greater happiness. The
perceived absence of air pollution was associated with
higher levels of happiness in more highly educated
participants. Individuals with a larger social network, more
social cohesion, and trusted neighbors showed greater
happiness. The association between social networks and
happiness was stronger in men than women. Associations
of 14 physical and social environmental characteristics with
happiness were analyzed using multivariable multinomial
regression analyses with clustered standard errors. Living
in neighborhoods with higher levels of aesthetics and more
water and green space was associated with being very
happy. A commonly used deﬁnition of happiness is “the
degree to which an individual judges the overall quality of
his/her life as a whole favorably”.
+ neighbor-
hoods with
high
aesthetics,
more water,
green spaces,
safer spaces,
absence of air
pollution,
larger social
network,
more social
cohesion,
trusted
neighbors,
association
between
social
networks
Europe European 278
33
Herbst, C. M. and Lucio,
J. (2016). Happy in the
hood? The impact of
residential segregation
on self-reported
happiness.
Journal of
Regional
Science, 56(3),
494–521.
National
Survey of
Families
and House-
holds
(NSFH)
14,334 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 44.54,
SD = 16.74, Age
Range = 14+ years;
60% Female, 40%
Male).
Segregation is associated with a reduction in happiness
among the Black population (i.e., members of the Black
population are found to be happier in more segregated
metropolitan areas). This paper explored the relationship
between residential segregation and self-reported
happiness. Increased segregation is associated with a
reduction in happiness among the Black population.
Deﬁnitions of happiness typically focus on the cognitive
dimensions of how people feel about their lives; the
well-known connection between self-reported happiness
and physical health suggests that the results from this
study are potentially relevant to a broad set of health
outcomes (Diener and Seligman, 2004; Frey and Stutzer,
2002; Kahneman and Deaton, 2011).
− increased
segregation
in the black
population
USA American 42
34
Ho, H. C., Mui, M., Wan,
A., Ng, Y. L., Stewart, S.
M., Yew, C., . . . and Chan,
S. S. (2016). Happy
Family Kitchen: A
community-based
research for enhancing
family communication
and well-being in Hong
Kong.
Journal of
Family
Psychology,
30(6), 752.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale
(SHS), and
Single Item
Indicator
self-report
scale
(happiness)
1419 participants
from China (Age
Range = 6 to 65+
years; 65% Female,
35% Male).
Community-based family intervention showed that family
communication, family well-being, and gratitude
intervention improved family happiness and subjective
happiness. Community-based family intervention, derived
from a positive psychology framework, can improve family
communication, family well-being, and subjective
happiness. The positive emotion of happiness among
married couples is positively associated with the frequency
of marital interaction, such as eating, shopping, and
visiting friends together (Zuo, 1992). The literature on
positive psychology and the theoretical framework
encompassed gratitude, ﬂow, happiness, health, and
savoring (Soong et al., 2015).
+ family com-
munication,
family
well-being,
gratitude
intervention
China Chinese 52
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 53 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
35
Ho, H. C., Mui, M., Wan,
A., Stewart, S. M., Yew,
C., Lam, T. H., and Chan,
S. S. (2017). Happy
Family Kitchen:
Behavioral outcomes of a
brief community-based
family intervention in
Hong Kong.
Journal of
Child and
Family
Studies,
26(10),
2852–2864.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale
(SHS), and
single item
indicator
self-report
scale
(happiness)
936 participants
from China (Age
Range = 35 to 40
years; 68% Female,
32% Male).
Gratitude, ﬂow, and happiness interventions were effective in
increasing happiness, happy memories, and happiness
behaviors. Family communication and eating with family
were signiﬁcantly positively associated with family
happiness. Using a one-group pre-test and repeated post-test
design over a 12-week period, the results showed that the
overall intervention program improved family
communication quality, family health, happiness and
harmony, and subjective happiness. The gratitude and
savoring interventions improved all the outcome measures,
whereas the happiness intervention improved family
communication quality, family health, family happiness, and
subjective happiness but not family harmony. The ﬂow and
health interventions improved family communication quality
and subjective happiness, respectively.
+ happy
memory
+ gratitude,
family com-
munication
quality,
eating with
family, family
happiness,
family health
China Chinese 71
36
Jindal, Y. K. and Jain, M.
(2017). Comparison
between father and
mother of differently
abled children on hope
and happiness.
Indian
Journal of
Health and
Wellbeing,
8(10).
Oxford
Happiness
Question-
naire
(OHQ)
40 parents from
India (Age Range
30–45 years; 42%
Female; 58%
Male).
Statistically, no signiﬁcant difference was found between
fathers and mothers of differently abled children on hope
and happiness. Happiness is generally believed to be
determined in part by one’s unique personality, set point, and
general situation and is especially inﬂuenced by frequent,
small, positive events (Argyle, 2001; Diener and Emmons,
1984; Veenhoven, 1094). Hope is deﬁned as a set of positive
expectations and wishes about the future that may condition
a person’s present affective state such as happiness.
+ personality,
general
situation,
positive
events
India Indian 36
37
Kasymova, S. and
Billings, D. L. (2018).
Meanings of fatherhood
in urban Tajikistan.
Psychology of Men and
Masculinity, 19(4), 635.
Psychology of
Men and
Masculinity ©
2017
American
Psychological
Association
2018, Vol. 19,
No. 4, 635–644
Mixed-
methods
approach,
which in-
corporated
conve-
nience and
snowball
sampling
techniques.
Qualitative
interviews with 30
fathers with
children ages 0 to
19 years old who
lived in urban
areas of
Tajikistan.
Most respondents commented on the joy, happiness,
prosperity, inspiration, and support fatherhood brought to
them. (n = 11) described their children as a source of joy,
happiness, prosperity, inspiration, and support.
+ joy,
inspiration
+
prosperity Tajikistan Tajikistani 49
38
Keng, S. H. and Wu, S. Y.
(2014). Living happily
ever after? The effect of
Taiwan’s National Health
Insurance on the
happiness of the elderly.
Journal of
Happiness
Studies, 15(4),
783–808.
Center for
Epidemio-
logical
Studies
Depression
Scale
(CES-D)
4049 participants
from Taiwan (Age
Range = 60 and
over).
National health insurance signiﬁcantly increased happiness.
Taiwan’s national health insurance (NHI) in 1995 created a
quasi-experiment that permits us to draw causal inferences
for the effect of the NHI on happiness and life satisfaction.
The results show that the NHI has a signiﬁcant effect on
happiness and life satisfaction. Happiness has long been a
main theme in psychology and sociology; it is only recently
that economists have linked psychological studies to
economics (Easterlin 1974). Among all identiﬁed
determinants of psychological well-being, income is the
leading factor that much research that has been undertaken
(for reviews, see Clark et al., 2008).
+ national
insurance,
income
Taiwan Taiwanese 82
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 54 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
39
Krause, N., Pargament, K.
I., Hill, P . C., and Ironson,
G. (2018). Assessing the
role of race/ethnicity in
the relationships among
spiritual struggles,
health, and well-being.
American
Journal of
Orthopsy-
chiatry,
88(2), 132.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
3010 participants
from US (Mean
age = 46.4 years,
SD = 17.2,
Range = 18 to 65+
years; 59% Female;
41% Male; 41%
White, 14%
Hispanic; 12%
Black).
More spiritual struggles associated with less happiness. The
Black population is less vulnerable to the effects of spiritual
struggles on happiness than the White and Hispanic
populations. The relationship between spiritual struggles,
health, and well-being varies across racial/ethnic groups.
Findings from the current study suggest that when spiritual
struggles arise, the Black population experiences fewer
symptoms of physical illness and less anxiety, and they tend
to be happier than White or Hispanic people.
− more
spiritual
struggles
US American 54
40
Lambert, M., Fleming, T.,
Ameratunga, S.,
Robinson, E., Crengle, S.,
Sheridan, J., . . . and
Merry, S. (2014). Looking
on the bright side: An
assessment of factors
associated with
adolescents’ happiness.
Advances
in Mental
Health,
12(2),
101–109.
WHO-5
Well-Being
Index
(WHO-5)
8679 secondary
school students
from New
Zealand (Age
Range = 13 to 17+
years; 46% Female;
54% Male).
Happiness was positively associated with good connections
with family, friends, and school, regular exercise, and meals
with family. Happiness was negatively associated with
witnessing yelling and the hitting of children and adults at
home, discrimination, frequent marijuana use, sexual abuse,
frequent alcohol use, and having a long-term health
condition. Determines possible factors which may be
associated with happiness among New Zealand adolescents.
Happiness was measured using the WHO well-being index.
Protective factors for happiness included family, school, and
peer connection, as well as family meals, exercise, and
belonging to a cultural group. Happiness was positively
associated with good connections with family, friends, and
school, regular exercise, and meals with family. The
measurement of life satisfaction as a concept is often used as
a proxy to indicate happiness and quality of life
(Biswas-Diener and Tamir, 2004).
+ regular
exercise, −
frequent
marijuana
use, sexual
abuse,
frequent
alcohol use,
having a
long-term
health
condition
+ good
connections
with family,
friends,
school, meals
with family,
belonging to
a cultural
group, −
yelling and
hitting of
children
New
Zealand
New
Zealander 21
41
Le, T. N., Lai, M. H., and
Wallen, J. (2009).
Multiculturalism and
subjective happiness as
mediated by cultural and
relational variables.
Cultural
Diversity
and Ethnic
Minority
Psychology,
15(3), 303.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
338 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 12.5,
Age range = 11–15
years; 47% Female,
53% Male; 50%
Asian, 14%
African American,
37% Hispanic, 2%
Others).
A positive relation between perceived school
multiculturalism and subjective happiness with full
mediation by ethnocultural empathy for African Americans,
Asians, males, and females. School multiculturalism was also
predictive of ethnocultural empathy for Hispanics;
ethnocultural empathy, in turn, was not signiﬁcantly
predictive of subjective happiness.
+ perceived
multicultur-
ism, −
ethnocultural
empathy
USA
Asian,
African
American,
Hispanic,
others
56
42
Levin, J. (2013). Religious
behavior, health, and
well-being among Israeli
Jews: Findings from the
European Social Survey.
Psychology
of Religion
and
Spirituality,
5(4), 272.
Self-report
happiness
item using
10-Point
Scale
1849 participants
from Israel (Age
Range = 15+).
Synagogue attendance and prayer were associated with
greater happiness. Synagogue attendance is associated with
greater happiness only, whereas prayer is associated with
greater happiness and life satisfaction and higher scores on
the well-being scale. indicators of both global subjective and
functional health and on the indicators of the affective,
cognitive, and somatic dimensions of psychological
well-being, by way of respective measures of happiness, and
life satisfaction.
+
functional
health, psy-
chological
well-being,
life
satisfaction
+ synagogue
attendance,
prayer
Israel Israeli 48
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 55 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings with
the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
43
Li, C. H. and Tsai, M. C.
(2014). Is the easy life
always the happiest?
Examining the
association of
convenience and
well-being in Taiwan.
Social
Indicators
Research,
117(3),
673–688.
Taiwan
Social
Change
Survey
(TSCS)
1680 participants
from Taiwan
(Mean Age = 44.2,
SD = 16.5; Age
Range = 19+ years;
50% Females, 50%
Males).
Better air quality/less pollution and quietness in the
neighborhood enhanced happiness. Neighborhood amenities
correlate positively with oft-used measures of well-being,
such as life satisfaction and happiness.
+ better air
quality, less
pollution,
quietness in
the
neighborhood
Taiwan Taiwanese 77
44
Li, Y., Johnson, B. D., and
Jenkins-Guarnieri, M. A.
(2013). Sexual identity
development and
subjective well-being
among Chinese lesbians.
International
Perspectives
in
Psychology:
Research,
Practice,
Consultation,
2(4), 242.
Depression–
Happiness
Scale
439 Chinese
lesbians (Age
Range: 18 to 42;
100% Female).
There was no signiﬁcant relationship found between the six
different sexual identity developmental stages and happiness.
The subjective well-being (SWB), including satisfaction with
life, hope, and happiness, was assessed in relation to stage of
sexual identity development for Chinese lesbians ages 18 to
42. Women in committed relationships reported more life
satisfaction and more disclosure of their sexual identity to
family members.
+ sexual
identity China Chinese 18
45
Lyu, J., Mao, Z., and Hu,
L. (2018). Cruise
experience and its
contribution to
subjective well-being: A
case of Chinese tourists.
International
Journal of
Tourism
Research,
20(2), 225–235.
Positive
And
Negative
Affect
Schedule
(PANAS)
18 participants
from China (Age
Range = 24 to 65
years; 67% Female,
33% Male).
Travel experience (cruise tourism) created short-term
happiness through emotional and relational experiences.
Happiness from cruise travel is created mainly through
emotional and relational experiences. SWB emphasizes the
subjective nature of happiness, such as emotion and mood,
rather than real-life objective standards, such as income and
education level, placing individuals to be the single best
judges of their own happiness (Kesebir and Diener, 2008).
+
emotional
experience
+ travel
experience,
income,
education
level
+ relational
experience China Chinese 58
46
Mehrdadi, A., Sadeghian,
S.,
Direkvand-Moghadam,
A., and Hashemian, A.
(2016). Factors affecting
happiness: a
cross-sectional study in
the Iranian youth.
Journal of
Clinical and
Diagnostic
Research:
JCDR, 10 (5).
Oxford
Happiness
Inventory
(OHI)
500 participants
from Iran (Mean
age = 20 years,
SD = 2.18,
Range = 16 to 90
years; 46% Female;
54% Male).
Living in urban vs. rural areas, regular physical activity, and
government employment associated with greater happiness.
Differences in gender, marital status, and education level had
no signiﬁcant associations with happiness scores. There was
not a signiﬁcant relationship between gender, marital status,
and education level with happiness scores among the
participants. Concepts such as self-satisfaction, life
satisfaction, and well-being are interest criteria of the World
Health Organization in the deﬁnition of mental health. These
components are associated with positive emotions such as joy,
peace, and happiness.
+ regular
physical
activity, life
satisfaction,
well-being,
joy
+ government
employment,
education
+ peace Iran Iranian
47
Monin, J. K., Poulin, M.
J., Brown, S. L., and
Langa, K. M. (2017).
Spouses’ daily feelings
of appreciation and
self-reported well-being.
+B34:B35
Health
Psychology,
36(12), 1135.
Positive
affect index
self-report
measure
73 spouses from
US (Mean age =
65.78, SD = 5.83;
Age Range = 54 to
81years; 56%
Female, 44%
Male).
Perceived help from a spouse increased partners’ happiness,
i.e., when spouses believe their help is appreciated in daily
life by their partners, they feel happier. A study showed that
active help was associated with more positive affect for
spouses when they perceived the help increased their
partner’s happiness and improved their partner’s well-being.
Helping predicted greater positive affect for above-mean
perceived levels of increasing partner happiness (B = 0.18,
95% CI [0.11, 0.25],ϕ = 0.17, p < 0.001) and improving partner
well-being (B = 0.20, 95% CI [0.12, 0.28],ϕ = 0.16, p < 0.001).
+ perceived
help from
spouse
US American 74
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 56 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
48
Moreno, R. L.,
Godoy-Inquired, D.,
Vazquez Perez, M. L.,
García, A. P ., Araque
Serrano, F., and Godoy
Garcia, J. F. (2014).
Multidimensional
psychosocial proﬁles in
the elderly and
happiness: a
cluster-based
identiﬁcation.
Aging and
Mental
Health, 18(4),
489–503.
Happiness
Scale (HS)
154 participants
from Spain (Mean
Age = 77.4,
SD = 8.03; Age
Range = 65 to 96
years; 50% Female,
50% Male).
Highly successful and home-dwelling elders demonstrated
signiﬁcantly higher happiness. Highly successful elders
demonstrated signiﬁcantly higher happiness, positive affect,
affect balance, and life satisfaction. Establishing
psychosocial, changeable variables with an inﬂuence on
happiness allows for a focused intervention on these
personal resources to protect or enhance SWB in the elderly.
+ home-
dwelling
elders
Spain Spanish 73
49
Morgan, J., Robinson, O.,
and Thompson, T. (2015).
Happiness and age in
European adults: The
moderating role of gross
domestic product per
capita.
Psychology
and Aging,
30(3), 544.
European
Social
Survey
(ESS)
46,301 individuals
from Europe (Age
Range = 20 to
79 years).
Eudaimonia and hedonic happiness remained relatively
stable across the lifespan only in the most afﬂuent nations; in
poorer nations, there was a ﬂuctuating or steady
age-associated decline in happiness. It was found that
eudaimonia and hedonic happiness remained relatively
stable across the lifespan only in the most afﬂuent nations; in
poorer nations, there was either a ﬂuctuating or steady
age-associated decline. Hedonic happiness is deﬁned as the
subjective experience of pleasure and satisfaction and the
absence of pain or negative feelings (Deci and Ryan, 2006). In
contrast, eudaimonia happiness is concerned with optimal
experience, positive relationships, a sense of purpose,
meaning, and a feeling of growth, and has been
operationalized by psychologists as ‘ﬂourishing’
(Diener et al., 2010).
+ pleasure,
satisfaction
+ sense of
purpose,
meaning,
feeling of
growth
+ positive
relationships Europe European 46
50
Morokoff, P . J. and
LoPiccolo, J. (1986). A
comparative evaluation
of minimal therapist
contacts and 15-session
treatment for female
orgasmic dysfunction.
Journal of
Consulting
and Clinical
Psychology,
54(3), 294.
Locke–
Wallace
Marital
Adjustment
Test
14 couples from
the USA (Mean
ages for males and
females = 33.4 and
30.2 years; Age
Ranges = 20–52).
Four-session minimal therapist contact (MTC) program for
the treatment of lifelong global orgasmic dysfunction in
women effectively improved marital happiness. Improving
satisfaction with sexual relationships, and, for women in the
MTC treatment, happiness in marriage.
+ improved
marital
happiness
USA American 83
51
Mujcic, R. and J. Oswald,
A. (2016). Evolution of
well-being and
happiness after increases
in consumption of fruit
and vegetables.
American
Journal of
Public Health,
106(8),
1504–1510.
Household,
Income,
and Labor
Dynamics
in Australia
Survey
(HILDA)
12,385 Australian
adults (Age
Range = 15 to 93
years).
Increased fruit and vegetable consumption was predictive of
increased happiness, life satisfaction, and well-being. Effects
on incident changes in happiness and life satisfaction for
people’s changing incomes and personal circumstances.
Increased fruit and vegetable consumption was predictive of
increased happiness.
+ increased
fruit and
vegetable
consumption
South
Africa
South
African 126
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 57 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
52
Ngamaba, K. H. (2016).
Happiness and life
satisfaction in Rwanda.
Journal of
Psychology in
Africa, 26(5),
407–414.
Self-report
item using
4-point
Likert Scale
3030 participants
from Rwanda
(Mean age = 34.2
years, SD = 12.7,
Range = 16 to 90
years; 51% Female;
49% Male).
Males had greater self-rated happiness than females. State of
health, sense of freedom of choice, valuing friends, weekly
religious attendance, and national pride positively predicted
happiness. The study investigated predictors of happiness
and life satisfaction in Rwanda. A ﬁxed effects multilevel
regression model was used to predict happiness and life
satisfaction from gender, health, socio-economic, and some
subjective measures. Happiness is most closely associated
with emotions, feelings, or moods (Watson, Clark, and
Tellegen, 1988; Gustafsson, Johansson, and Palmer, 2009).
Indicators of happiness and life satisfaction may have
different salience in developing and developed countries
(Howell and Howell, 2008; Fleche, Smith, and Sorsa, 2011;
Jorm and Ryan, 2014).
+ positive
emotions,
positive
feelings
+ freedom
of choice
+ valuing
friends,
weekly
religious
attendance,
national pride
Rwanda Rwandan 26
53
North, R. J., Holahan, C.
J., Moos, R. H., and
Cronkite, R. C. (2008).
Family support, family
income, and happiness:
A 10-year perspective.
Journal of
Family
Psychology,
22(3), 475.
Self-report
happiness
item using
5-Point
Scale
274 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 37,
SD = 13.39, Age
Range = 18–82
years; 48% Female,
52% Male).
Income had a small positive impact on happiness. Family
social support, i.e., cohesion, expressiveness, and conﬂict,
showed a positive association with concurrent happiness.
The authors used hierarchical linear modeling to investigate
the relationship between family income and happiness.
Cohesion, expressiveness, and conﬂict showed a substantial,
positive association with concurrent happiness. Income and
happiness are most strongly associated at lower levels of
income, and higher income categories are associated with
ever smaller increments in happiness (Biswas-Diener, 2002).
+ income,
expressive-
ness
+ family
support,
social
support,
cohesion
USA American 52
54
Panadero, S., Guillén, A.
I., and Vázquez, J. J.
(2015). Happiness on the
street: Overall happiness
among homeless people
in Madrid (Spain).
American
Journal of Or-
thopsychiatry,
85(4), 324.
Overall,
Happiness
Faces Scale
(FS)
235 homeless
adults from Spain
(Mean age = 47.64,
SD = 11.94; 17%
Female, 83%
Male).
A positive perceived general health was associated with
higher overall happiness, whereas feelings of loneliness and
disability/handicap were associated with lower overall
happiness. They tested a hypothesized model of overall
happiness among homeless people in Spain. The results
obtained show that around half of the homeless people in
Madrid said that they were happy. Happiness also showed a
signiﬁcant effect on future expectations. The research shows
a positive relationship between health and happiness
+ general
health,
health −
disability,
handicap,
positive
image,
+ future ex-
pectations
+ homeless
people, −
feelings of
loneliness
Spain Spanish 54
55
Park, H. I., Monnot, M. J.,
Jacob, A. C., and Wagner,
S. H. (2011). Moderators
of the relationship
between person-job ﬁt
and subjective
well-being among Asian
employees.
International
Journal of
Stress
Management,
18(1), 67.
Happiness
Measure
(HM)
90 Asian
employees in US
(Mean age = 34.70,
SD = 7.35; 73%
Female, 27%
Male).
High core self-evaluation and needs-supplies ﬁt (congruence
between employees’ needs and the rewards received for
work) signiﬁcantly predicted greater happiness. Employees
with a high person–organization ﬁt displayed greater
increases in happiness than employees with low
person–organization ﬁt. In Study 1 (N = 90), the interaction
between core self-evaluation and needs-supplies (N-S) ﬁt
signiﬁcantly predicted happiness but not depression.
Workers with high levels of core self-evaluation were less
affected by N-S ﬁt, whereas employees who had low core
self-evaluation displayed a reduced level of happiness when
there was a lack of N-S ﬁt. Happiness (vs. unhappiness)
involves a purely evaluative type of well-being
+ high core
self-
evaluation,
+ high
needs-
supplies ﬁt,
high
person-
organization
ﬁt, − low
self-
evaluation
Asia Asian 57
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 58 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
56
Peltzer, K., Pengpid, S.,
Sodi, T., and Mantilla
Toloza, S. C. (2017).
Happiness and health
behaviors among
university students from
24 low-, middle- and
high-income countries.
Journal of
Psychology in
Africa, 27(1),
61–68.
17,508
participants
from 24
countries
across Asia,
Africa, and
the Americas
(Mean
Age = 20.9,
SD = 2.8, Age
Range =
16–30 years;
58% Female,
42% Male)
17,508 participants
from 24 countries
across Asia, Africa,
and the Americas
(Mean Age = 20.9,
SD = 2.8, Age
Range = 16–30
years; 58% Female,
42% Male).
Students from countries of the Caribbean, South America,
and Sub-Saharan Africa had greater happiness scores than
students from countries in North Africa and Asia. The study
examined health behaviors and happiness and associated
factors in low. The results indicate that the overall happiness
mean score among university students across 24 countries
was 13.7 (range 4–20) in middle- and high-income countries.
In multivariate linear regression analysis, better subjective
socio-economic status, coming from a higher income country,
higher social support, higher intrinsic religiosity, higher
personal mastery, positive health behaviors, and negative
health behaviors) were correlated with happiness. The two
positive psychological states for happiness include ‘positive
affect or hedonic well-being’ (feelings of happiness and
enjoyment) and eudaimonia well-being (human
self-actualization) (Ryan and Deci, 2001; Steptoe, O’Donnell,
Marmot, and Wardle, 2009a).
+ positive
health
behaviors,
− negative
health
behaviors
+ higher
personal
mastery,
positive
health
behaviors
+ Better
subjective
socio-
economic
status,
coming from
a higher
income
country,
higher social
support,
higher
intrinsic
religiosity
24
countries
25
countries 26
57
Pholphirul, P . (2014).
Healthier and happier?
The urban-rural divide
in Thailand.
Journal of
Human
Behavior in
the Social
Environment,
24(8), 973–985.
National
Survey
2402 participants
from Thailand
(Age
Range = 15–60 years,
70% Female, 30%
Male).
Income did not affect the level of happiness of those who
lived in either urban or rural areas. The study speciﬁcally
investigates the differences between the health and
happiness outcomes of people who live in urban and rural
areas in Thailand. Income is found to not affect the level of
happiness of those who live in either urban or rural areas.
The study of happiness involves various academic ﬁelds,
from psychology to economics. The results of studies using
macro-level data such as employment rate, pollution rate, or
level of income of a country, suggest that in the past 50 years,
even though the average income and consumption level of
the world’s population has been continuously increasing, its
happiness level has not increased as indicated by the
happiness indicator measured by new Economic Foundation.
Macro-level data suggest that happiness derives from living
in a good society and an environment that fosters generosity
and is free from cheating. Micro-data found that, on average,
wealthy people are happier than impoverished people. The
current study uses nationally surveyed data obtained from
the Happiness Indicator of a study called “The Development
and Testing of the New Version of Thai Mental Health
Indicator” conducted by the Department of Mental Health,
Ministry of Public Health. The comparative results here
suggest that rural people’s level of life satisfaction is
generally higher than that of urban dwellers. Income is
found to have no impact on physical and mental health,
pleasure, and happiness levels.
+ living in a
good society,
environment
that fosters
generosity,
environment
that is free
from cheating
Thailand Thai 45
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 59 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
58
Powell, L., Chia, D.,
McGreevy, P .,
Podberscek, A. L.,
Edwards, K. M., Neilly,
B., . . . and Stamatakis, E.
(2018). Expectations for
dog ownership:
Perceived physical,
mental, and psychosocial
health consequences
among prospective
adopters.
PLoS ONE,
13(7).
Self-report
Online
Question-
naire
3465 participants
from Australia
(Range = 18 to 65+
years; 85% Female;
15% Male).
Dog ownership respondents expected increased happiness.
The physical, mental, and psychosocial health beneﬁts and
challenges they associated with dog ownership. Among the
potential beneﬁts, respondents expected increased walking
(89%), happiness (89%), and companionship (61%) and
decreased stress (74%) and loneliness (61%).
+ dog
ownership Australia Australian 278
60
Reyes, J. A. L. (2016).
Exploring leisure time
activities and
sociodemographic
indicators of subjective
happiness and
self-perceived health
among Filipinos.
Austrian
Journal of
South East
Asian Studies,
9(2), 269–288.
International
Social
Survey
Programme
2007
1200 participants
from the
Philippines (Age
Range = 18–91
years, 50% Female,
50% Male).
Age, leisure activity engagement, and the earnings of others
in the neighborhood were negatively associated with
happiness; subjective economic status/progress and religious
activity attendance were positively associated with subjective
happiness. The relationships of subjective happiness and
self-perceived health were signiﬁcantly predicted by
subjective socio-economic status, but not by actual
family income.
+ leisure
activities,
engage-
ment,
subjective
economic
status, −
earning of
others in
the neigh-
borhood
+ age,
religious
activity
Philippines Philippines
61
Salim, S., Robinson, M.,
and Flanders, C. E. (2019).
Bisexual women’s
experiences of
microaggressions and
microafﬁrmations and
their relation to mental
health.
Psychology of
Sexual
Orientation
and Gender
Diversity,
6(3), 336.
5-day daily
diary AND
single-item
happiness
question-
naire
85 participants
from the USA
(Mean Age = 24;
Age Range = 18 to
58 years;
Identiﬁed as
cisgender
women = 70.6%,
bisexual = 82.4%,
and white
only = 62.3%).
Daily subtle negative experiences were related to adverse
mental health outcomes, such as depression, suicidality, and
decreased happiness. There was a signiﬁcant relationship
between daily microaggressions and depression, suicidality,
and happiness within individuals.
− adverse
mental
health
outcomes,
depression,
suicidality
USA American 46
62
Senasu, K. and
Singhapakdi, A. (2017).
Determinants of
happiness in Thailand:
The moderating role of
religiousness.
Journal of
Human
Behavior in
the Social
Environment,
27(4), 270–290.
Telephone
Question-
naire
1004 respondents
from Thailand
(Age Range = 25 to
54 years; 50%
Female; 50%
Male).
Family satisfaction, health satisfaction, environmental
livability, and religiousness positively affected happiness.
The family satisfaction aspect played the most important role
in predicting happiness. The results verify the importance of
family satisfaction, health satisfaction, environmental
livability, and religiousness as important factors of happiness.
Happiness can be a cultural issue—for one thing, a positive
view of the self is instrumental to a person’s happiness
(Biswas-Diener and Diener, 2001; Biswas-Diener et al., 2005).
+ health sat-
isfaction,
+ positive
self-view
+ family
satisfaction,
environmen-
tal livability,
religiousness
Thailand Thai 45
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 60 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
63
Severy, L. J., Waszak, C.,
Badawi, I., and Kafaﬁ, L.
(2003). The psychological
well-being of women of
Menouﬁya, Egypt:
Relationships with
family planning.
American
Psychologist,
58(3), 218.
Center for
Epidemio-
logical
Studies
Depression
Scale
(CES-D)
795 participants
from Egypt (Mean
Age = 28.9; 100%
Female).
Using family planning, having a smaller number of children,
and women disagreeing with subservient gender attitudes
led to higher happiness. The use of family planning and the
number of children born within the preceding 5 years
predicted the state of the ratings of happiness.
+ family
planning,
number of
children,
women
disagreeing
with
subservient
gender
attitudes
Egypt Egyptian 142
64
Shams, K. (2014).
Determinants of
subjective well-being
and poverty in rural
Pakistan: a micro-level
study.
Social
Indicators
Research,
119(3),
1755–1773.
Social
Well-Being
(SWB)
Poverty
Measure
600 participants
from Pakistan.
Individuals with unemployment and low health status were
found in a lower happiness category. Increasing education
income, a higher level of education, and family size were
found in the high happiness category. Happiness was found
to be U-shaped in age. Socio-demographic factors on
happiness. This study suggests a positive impact on
well-being and poverty. Subjective well-being (SWB) refers
in this context to the overall well-being; i.e., happiness in
terms of socio-economic status is measured in this paper.
− low
health
status
+
increasing
education,
increasing
income, −
unemploy-
ment
+ family size,
age Pakistan Pakistani 77
65
Shams, K. and Kadow, A.
(2018). Happiness across
the life span: Evidence
from urban Pakistan.
FWU Journal
of Social
Sciences,
12(1), 17–30.
Social
Well-Being
Scale
(SWB)
750 participants
from Pakistan
(Age Range = 14
and above).
Happiness increased with the number of children in urban
areas of Pakistan. The results moreover suggest a U-shaped
age–happiness pattern. Happiness into various variables, for
instance, age, gender, income, employment status, and
marital status (Diener et al., 1999).
+ income,
employ-
ment
+ increase in
the number
of children,
age, marital
status
Pakistan Pakistani 14
66
Simons, M., Peeters, S.,
Janssens, M., Lataster, J.,
and Jacobs, N. (2018).
Does age make a
difference? Age as
moderator in the
association between time
perspective and
happiness.
Journal of
Happiness
Studies, 19(1),
57–67.
Subjective
Happiness
Scale (SHS)
530 participants
from Netherlands
(Mean Age = 49.15,
SD = 14.01, Age
Range = 20 to 87
years; 68% Female,
32% Male).
Time perspective (the predominantly unconscious process of
assigning personal and social experiences to time frames, that
help individuals organize and value these events) was
associated with happiness. With aging, the negative
association between a past-negative time perspective
(represents a negative and pessimistic attitude towards the
past) and happiness weakened. Regression analysis shows
that time perspective is indeed associated with happiness.
Research shows that time perspective is associated with
different aspects of well-being, including perceived
happiness (i.e., Boniwell et al., 2010; Hicks et al., 2012;
Zimbardo et al., 1997).
− aging,
past-negative
time
perspective
Netherlands Netherlander 82
67
Speed, D. and Fowler, K.
(2017). Good for all?
Hardly! Attending
church does not beneﬁt
religiously unafﬁliated.
Journal of
Religion and
Health, 56(3),
986–1002.
Self-report
happiness
item using
5-Point
Scale
3620 participants
from Canada (Age
Range = 45–49
years; 55% Female,
45% Male).
Religious attendance and religiosity were signiﬁcant positive
predictors of happiness. Identifying as Christian or a
non-afﬁliate was not associated with greater happiness. In
non-afﬁliated groups, attendance, prayer/meditation, and
religiosity were not signiﬁcant predictors of greater
happiness. Research showed the relationships between
religious/spiritual variables (attendance, prayer/meditation,
and religiosity) and health outcomes (happiness, self-rated
health).
+ religious
attendance,
religiosity,
attending
church
Canada Canadian 55
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 61 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
68
Steptoe, A., Leigh, E. S.,
and Kumari, M. (2011).
Positive affect and
distressed affect over the
day in older people.
Psychology
and Aging,
26(4), 956.
Self-report
happiness
item using
4-Point
Scale
4258 participants
from the UK
(Mean Age = 64.3,
SD = 7.4, Age
Range = 52–79
years; 55% Female,
45% Male).
The associations of loneliness highlight the everyday distress
and reduced happiness and excitement experienced by lonely
older men and women, and these may contribute to enhanced
risks to physical and mental health.
+ loneliness UK British 46
69
Sujarwoto, S. and
Tampubolon, G. (2015).
Decentralisation and
citizen happiness: A
multilevel analysis of
self-rated happiness in
Indonesia.
Journal of
Happiness
Studies, 16(2),
455–475.
Indonesian
Family Life
Survey
29,024 participants
from Indonesia
(Mean Age = 37,
SD = 17, Age
Range = 15–90
years; 52% Female,
48% Male).
Fiscal decentralization (improved capacity of districts to
deliver public services) signiﬁcantly increased citizen
happiness. Multilevel analysis is used to examine the effect
of ﬁscal and political decentralization on citizen happiness
and shows that ﬁscal decentralization is signiﬁcantly
associated with citizen happiness.
+ ﬁscal
decentral-
ization
+ political de-
centralization Indonesia Indonesian 82
70
Surinrut, P ., Auamnoy, T.,
and Sangwatanaroj, S.
(2016). Enhanced
happiness and stress
alleviation upon insight
meditation retreat:
mindfulness, a part of
traditional Buddhist
meditation.
Mental
Health,
Religion and
Culture, 19(7),
648–659.
Thai
Happiness
Indicators
(THI-15)
330 participants
from Thailand
(Mean age = 57.8,
SD = 7.52, Age
Range = 45–80
years; 84% Female,
16% Male).
Meditation interventions (seven-day intensive Vipassana
retreat) enhanced happiness. The effect sizes for happiness
and perceived stress were 0.379 and −0.428 in the meditation
group. The meditation group showed a signiﬁcant increase in
happiness
+
meditation Thailand Thai 26
71
Tang, T. L. P ., Sutarso, T.,
Ansari, M. A., Lim, V . K.
G., Teo, T. S. H.,
Arias-Galicia, F.,. . . and
Vlerick, P . (2018).
Monetary intelligence
and behavioral
economics across 32
cultures: Good apples
enjoy good quality of life
in good barrels.
Journal of
Business
Ethics, 148(4),
893–917.
General
Social
Survey
(GSS)
6586 participants
from 32 cultures
across 6 continents
(Mean Age = 34.66;
49% Female, 51%
Male).
Neither GDP nor income were related to happiness. In low
GDP (poor) entities, high income was related to escalated
happiness. Neither GDP nor income is related to happiness
(money makes people happy). The happiness–income
paradox exists in developed and developing countries
(Easterlin et al. 2010). People with higher incomes have
higher levels of happiness compared to others in their society.
+ high
income in
low GDP
entities
32
countries
33
countries 176
72
T umen, S. and Zeydanli,
T. (2015). Is happiness
contagious? Separating
spillover externalities
from the group-level
social context.
Journal of
Happiness
Studies, 16(3),
719–744.
General
Health
Question-
naire
(GHQ)
97,372 participants
from the UK
(Mean age = 39.59
years, SD = 12.60;
49% Female; 51%
Male).
Group-level happiness does not have a statistically
signiﬁcant endogenous effect on individual-level happiness.
Group-level happiness is neither negative nor positive on the
individual level. Individual-level happiness is instead
determined by social context (age, education, employer status,
and health) in Great Britain. These results suggest that higher
group-level happiness does not spill over to the individual
level in either a negative or a positive sense. Studies ﬁnd that
“clusters of happiness result from the spread of happiness”
[see, e.g., Fowler and Christakis (2008)].
+ health
+
education,
employer
status
+ social
context UK British 82
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 62 of 68
Table A3. Cont.
Health Hope Harmony 74
Unique
Se Study Journal Happiness
Measure Sample Correlation of Happiness in Findings Reviewers’ Agglutination of the Findings
with the Three Categories Identiﬁed Country Culture
Quality
Score
(h5
Median)
73
Waldinger, R. J. and
Schulz, M. S. (2010).
What’s love got to do
with it? Social
functioning, perceived
health, and daily
happiness in married
octogenarians.
Psychology
and Aging,
25(2), 422.
Self-report
happiness
item using
7-Point
Scale
47 older
heterosexual
couples from the
US (Mean age for
men = 82.9,
SD = 1.7; Age
Range 80–88,
Mean Age for
women = 78.8,
SD = 6.16; Age
range 62–87).
Marital satisfaction protected older adults’ happiness from
daily ﬂuctuations in perceived physical health, and social
connections promoted happiness in older adults. For both
men and women, marital satisfaction buffered day-to-day
links between poorer perceived health and a decline in
happiness. Physical health and social functioning are widely
believed to be important determinants of happiness in old
age (Jopp and Rott, 2006)
+ marital
satisfaction,
social
connections
US American 46
74
Wang, J. H. (2015).
Happiness and Social
Exclusion of Indigenous
Peoples in Taiwan-A
Social Sustainability
Perspective.
PLoS ONE,
10(2).
Social
Change
and Policy
of
Taiwanese
Indigenous
Peoples
Survey
(TIPS)
2057 participants
from Taiwan
(Mean Age = 42.33,
SD = 12.26, Age
Range = 18–65;
56% Female, 44%
Male).
Mountain indigenous peoples, females, the elderly, those
who were healthier, wealthier, highly educated, possessed
western beliefs, who received medical beneﬁts, were without
housing problems or ﬁnancial difﬁculties were more likely to
be happy. Happiness and social inclusion are important
indicators of social sustainability, as recommended in the
Sustainable Development Goals.
+ medical
beneﬁts,
without
housing
problems,
without
ﬁnancial
difﬁculties
+ mountain
indigenous
people,
healthy
females,
healthy
elders,
posseting
western
beliefs,
Taiwan Taiwanese 278
75
Yadav, P ., Nunia, S.,
Bansal, A., Sureka, S. K.,
Jena, R., Ansari, M. S.,
and Srivastava, A. (2017).
Multidimensional
assessment of quality of
life of children and
problems of parents in
Indian society after
pediatric renal
transplant: Beyond the
Conventional Thoughts.
Pediatric
Transplanta-
tion, 21(6),
e13001.
Happiness
Question-
naire
(HQ)
62 patients from
India (Mean Age
= 13.4, SD = 4.1;
29% Female, 71%
Male).
Greater happiness reported post-renal transplant. Feelings of
happiness and peer group socialization were reported in 81%
and 69% of patients, respectively. The improved physical
health of children post-transplantation is accompanied by a
marked improvement in feelings of happiness.
+
post-renal
transplant,
improved
physical
health
+ peer group
socialization India Indian 30
76
Yao, Y. F. and Chen, K. M.
(2017). Effects of
horticulture therapy on
nursing home older
adults in southern
Taiwan.
Quality of
Life Research,
26(4),
1007–1014.
Chinese
Happiness
Inventory
short
version
(CHI)
85 older adults
from Taiwan
(Mean Age = 77.41,
SD = 8.56; Age
Range = 65+ years;
61% Female,
39% Male).
Horticulture therapy that included plant cultivation and
plant-related material application signiﬁcantly improved
happiness. Horticulture therapy improved activities of daily
living, happiness, and interpersonal intimacy of older adults
in nursing homes.
+ horticulture
therapy Taiwan Taiwanese 77
(+) indicates positive inﬂuence of the determinants with happiness categories (Health, Hope, Harmony). While ( −) indicates a negative inﬂuence of the determinant on happiness.
SD—‘Standard Deviation’.
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 63 of 68
References
1. Bartlett, R.C.; Collins, S.D. Aristotle’s Nicomachean Ethics; University of Chicago Press: Chicago, IL, USA, 2011.
2. Freud, S.; McLintock, D.; Freud, S. Civilization, and Its Discontents; Penguin: London, UK, 2002.
3. White, N.P . A Brief History of Happiness; John Wiley & Sons: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2008.
4. Stearns, P .N. The history of happiness. Harv. Bus. Rev. 2012, 90, 104–109.
5. Klausen, S.H. Happiness, dispositions, and the self. J. Happiness Stud. 2016, 17, 995–1013. [CrossRef]
6. Qayoom, S.; Husain, A. Happiness and well-being. Indian J. Health Well-Being 2016, 7, 461.
7. Rodogno, R. Happiness and well-being: Shifting the focus of the current debate. S. Afr. J. Philos. 2014, 33, 433–446. [CrossRef]
8. Abachizadeh, K. Measuring subjective happiness by newly developed scale in Tehran, Iran. Nov. Biomed. 2015, 3, 207–213.
9. Allen, M.S.; McCarthy, P .J. Be happy in your work: The role of positive psychology in working with change and performance.J.
Change Manag. 2016, 16, 55–74. [CrossRef]
10. Veni, R.K.; Gomes, R.F.; Aurora, A.P . Differences in happiness and emotional intelligence among adolescents and adults.Indian J.
Health Well-Being 2018, 9, 115–117.
11. Hart, E.A.C.; Lakerveld, J.; McKee, M.; Oppert, J.M.; Rutter, H.; Charreire, H.; Veenhoven, R.; Bárdos, H.; Compernolle, S.; De
Bourdeaudhuij, I.; et al. Contextual correlates of happiness in European adults. PLoS ONE 2018, 13, e0190387. [CrossRef]
12. Bieda, A.; Hirschfeld, G.; Schönfeld, P .; Brailovskaia, J.; Zhang, X.C.; Margraf, J. Universal happiness? Cross-cultural measurement
invariance of scales assessing positive mental health. Psychol. Assess. 2017, 29, 408–421. [CrossRef]
13. Parks, A.C.; Della Porta, M.D.; Pierce, R.S.; Zilca, R.; Lyubomirsky, S. Pursuing happiness in everyday life: The characteristics and
behaviors of online happiness seekers. Emotion 2012, 12, 1222. [CrossRef]
14. Catalino, L.I.; Algoe, S.B.; Fredrickson, B.L. Prioritizing positivity: An effective approach to pursuing happiness? Emotion 2014,
14, 1155–1161. [CrossRef]
15. Elliot, M.; Cullen, M.; Calitz, A.P . Happiness among South African private sector physiotherapists. S. Afr. J. Physiother. 2018,
74, a421. [CrossRef]
16. Cameron, P .; Titus, D.G.; Kostin, J.; Kostin, M. The life satisfaction of nonnormal persons. J. Consult. Clin. Psychol. 1973, 41,
207–214. [CrossRef]
17. Pishgar, F.; Soleyman-Jahi, S.; Pishgar, F.; Eftekhar Ardebili, H.; Jamal, A.; Arab, A. Level of happiness and its determining factors
in pregnant women: A cross-sectional study. J. Reprod. Infant Psychol. 2016, 34, 431–441. [CrossRef]
18. Ha, Y.M.; Hwang, W.J. Gender differences in internet addiction associated with psychological health indicators among adolescents
using a national web-based survey. Int. J. Ment. Health Addict. 2014, 12, 660–669. [CrossRef]
19. Blekesaune, M. Is cohabitation as good as marriage for people’s subjective well-being? longitudinal evidence on happiness and
life satisfaction in the British household panel survey. J. Happiness Stud. 2018, 19, 505–520. [CrossRef]
20. Brickman, P .; Campbell, D.T. Hedonic relativism and planning the good society. InAdaptation Level Theory; Appley, M.H., Ed.;
Academic Press: New York, NY, USA, 1971; pp. 287–302.
21. Diener, E.; Lucas, R.E.; Scollon, C.N. Beyond the hedonic treadmill: Revising the adaptation theory of well-being. Am. Psychol.
2006, 61, 305–314. [CrossRef]
22. Bojanowska, A.; Zalewska, A.M. Lay understanding of happiness and the experience of well-being: Are some conceptions of
happiness more beneﬁcial than others? J. Happiness Stud. 2016, 17, 793–815. [CrossRef]
23. Page, M.J.; McKenzie, J.E.; Bossuyt, P .M.; Boutron, I.; Hoffmann, T.C.; Mulrow, C.D.; Shamseer, L.; Tetzlaff, J.M.; Akl, E.A.;
Brennan, S.E.; et al. The PRISMA 2020 statement: An updated guideline for reporting systematic reviews. BMJ 2021, 372, n71.
[CrossRef]
24. Gray, M.; Ison, E.; Brice, R.; Futter, T.; Burls, A.; West, J.; Yates, J.; Sandercock, J.; Bradley, P .; Mylonas, P .; et al. Critical Appraisal
Skills Programme UK. CASP Checklists. 7 July 1993. Available online: https://casp-uk.net/casp-tools-checklists/ (accessed on
15 September 2020).
25. Jones, S.C.; Crookes, P .A.; Johnson, K.M. Teaching critical appraisal skills for nursing research. Nurse Educ. Pract. 2011, 11,
327–332. [CrossRef]
26. Abelha, M.; Fernandes, S.; Mesquita, D.; Seabra, F.; Ferreira-Oliveira, A.T. Graduate employability and competence development
in higher education—A systematic literature review using PRISMA. Sustainability 2020, 12, 5900. [CrossRef]
27. Tanzer, R.T.; Weyandt, L. Imaging Happiness: Meta Analysis and Review. J. Happiness Stud. 2020, 21, 2693–2734. [CrossRef]
28. Seligman, M.E.; Steen, T.A.; Park, N.; Peterson, C. Positive psychology progress: Empirical validation of interventions. Am.
Psychol. 2005, 60, 410–421. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
29. Watson, G. Happiness among adult students of education. J. Educ. Psychol. 1930, 21, 79–109. [CrossRef]
30. Fordyce, M.W. A program to increase happiness: Further studies. J. Couns. Psychol. 1983, 30, 483. [CrossRef]
31. Kavˇ ciˇ c, T.; Avsec, A. Happiness and pathways to reach it: Dimension-centered versus person-centered approach.Soc. Indic. Res.
2014, 118, 141–156. [CrossRef]
32. Van Tongeren, D.R.; Burnette, J.L. Do you believe happiness can change? An investigation of the relationship between happiness
mindsets, well-being, and satisfaction. J. Posit. Psychol. 2018, 13, 101–109. [CrossRef]
33. Ziapour, A.; Khatony, A.; Jafari, F.; Kianipour, N. Correlation of Personality Traits with Happiness among University Students.J.
Clin. Diagn. Res. 2018, 12, 26–29. [CrossRef]
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 64 of 68
34. Surinrut, P .; Auamnoy, T.; Sangwatanaroj, S. Enhanced happiness and stress alleviation upon insight meditation retreat: Mindful-
ness, a part of traditional Buddhist meditation. Ment. Health Relig. Cult. 2016, 19, 648–659. [CrossRef]
35. Chaverri, J.; Praetorius, R.T.; Ruiz, E. Counselor happiness: Effects of therapy work with similar trauma. Soc. Work Ment. Health
2018, 16, 419–435. [CrossRef]
36. Akin, Ü.; Akin, A. Mindfulness and subjective happiness: The mediating role of coping competence. Ceskoslovenska Psychol. 2015,
59, 359.
37. Amutio, A.; Martínez-Taboada, C.; Hermosilla, D.; Delgado, L.C. Enhancing relaxation states and positive emotions in physicians
through a mindfulness training program: A one-year study. Psychol. Health Med. 2015, 20, 720–731. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
38. Datu, J.A.D.; Yuen, M.; Chen, G. The triarchic model of grit is linked to academic success and well-being among Filipino high
school students. Sch. Psychol. Q. 2018, 33, 428–438. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
39. Kim, J.; Kim, M.; Park, S.H. Exploring the relationship among posttraumatic growth, life satisfaction, and happiness among
Korean individuals with physical disabilities. Psychol. Rep. 2016, 119, 312–327. [CrossRef]
40. Singh, S.; Devender, S. Hope and mindfulness as correlates of happiness. Indian J. Posit. Psychol. 2015, 6, 422.
41. Emanuel, A.S.; Howell, J.L.; Taber, J.M.; Ferrer, R.A.; Klein, W.M.; Harris, P .R. Spontaneous self-afﬁrmation is associated with
psychological well-being: Evidence from a US national adult survey sample. J. Health Psychol. 2018, 23, 95–102. [CrossRef]
42. Moza, D.; Maricu t,oiu, L.; Gavreliuc, A. Cross-lagged relationships between self-esteem, self-construal, and happiness in a
three-wave longitudinal study. J. Individ. Differ. 2019, 40, 177. [CrossRef]
43. Lobos, G.; Mora, M.; del Carmen Lapo, M.; Caligari, C.; Schnettler, B. Happiness and health and food-related factors: Evidence
for different age groups in Chile. Suma Psicológica 2015, 22, 120–128. [CrossRef]
44. Salim, S.; Robinson, M.; Flanders, C.E. Bisexual women’s experiences of microaggressions and micro afﬁrmations and their
relation to mental health. Psychol. Sex. Orientat. Gend. Divers. 2019, 6, 336. [CrossRef]
45. Hegarty, R.S.; Treharne, G.J.; Stebbings, S.; Conner, T.S. Fatigue and mood among people with arthritis: Carry-over across the day.
Health Psychol. 2016, 35, 492–499. [CrossRef]
46. Terrill, A.L.; Müller, R.; Jensen, M.P .; Molton, I.R.; Ipsen, C.; Ravesloot, C. Association between age, distress, and orientations to
happiness in individuals with disabilities. Rehabil. Psychol. 2015, 60, 27. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
47. Gilbert, P .; McEwan, K.; Catarino, F.; Baiao, R.; Palmeira, L. Fears of happiness and compassion in relationship with depression,
alexithymia, and attachment security in a depressed sample. Br. J. Clin. Psychol. 2014, 53, 228–244. [CrossRef]
48. Boissoneault, J.; Sevel, L.; Robinson, M.E.; Staud, R. Functional brain connectivity of remembered fatigue or happiness in healthy
adults: Use of arterial spin labeling. J. Clin. Exp. Neuropsychol. 2018, 40, 224–233. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
49. Krause, N.; Pargament, K.I.; Ironson, G. Does a religious transformation buffer the effects of lifetime trauma on happiness? Int. J.
Psychol. Relig. 2017, 27, 104–115. [CrossRef]
50. Ren, Q.; Ye, M. Losing children and mental well-being: Evidence from China. Appl. Econ. Lett. 2017, 24, 868–877. [CrossRef]
51. Krause, N.; Pargament, K.I.; Hill, P .C.; Ironson, G. Humility, stressful life events, and psychological well-being: Findings from the
landmark spirituality and health survey. J. Posit. Psychol. 2016, 11, 499–510. [CrossRef]
52. Booker, C.L.; Skew, A.J.; Kelly, Y.J.; Sacker, A. Media use, sports participation, and well-being in adolescence: Cross-sectional
ﬁndings from the UK household longitudinal study.Am. J. Public Health 2015, 105, 173–179. [CrossRef]
53. Ansari, H.; Ansari Moghaddam, A.; Mohammadi, M.; Mahdavifar, N. Investigating the relationship between happiness and
self-conﬁdence with addiction recurrence in addicted people undergoing methadone treatment referred to addiction treatment
centers of Zahedan city with an emphasis on the confounders of demographic factors and factors related to drug-taking recurrence.
World Fam. Med. J. Inc. Middle East J. Fam. Med. 2018, 99, 1–8.
54. Durand, G. Demystiﬁcation of the relationship between psychopathy and happiness. J. Happiness Stud. 2018, 19, 381–395.
[CrossRef]
55. Fullen, M.C.; Richardson, V .E.; Granello, D.H. Comparing successful aging, resilience, and holistic wellness as predictors of the
good life. Educ. Gerontol. 2018, 44, 459–468. [CrossRef]
56. Kumar, M.V . Emotional expressivity, loneliness, and subjective happiness as predictors of psychological well-being among the
elderly. Indian J. Health Well-Being 2015, 6, 1169–1173.
57. Dewar, A.J.; Kavussanu, M. Achievement goals and emotions in team sport athletes.Sport Exerc. Perform. Psychol. 2012, 1, 254–267.
[CrossRef]
58. Fry, M.D.; Guivernau, M.; Kim, M.S.; Newton, M.; Gano-Overway, L.A.; Magyar, T.M. Youth perceptions of a caring climate,
emotional regulation, and psychological well-being. Sport Exerc. Perform. Psychol. 2012, 1, 44–57. [CrossRef]
59. Witvliet, C.V .; Richie, F.J.; Root Luna, L.M.; Van Tongeren, D.R. Gratitude predicts Hope and happiness: A two-study assessment
of traits and states. J. Posit. Psychol. 2019, 14, 271–282. [CrossRef]
60. Zhang, S.; Zhang, H.; Qiu, Z.; Tang, H. Effects of positive psychological intervention on the mental health and Happiness of
patients undergoing in vitro fertilization. Biomed. Res. 2017, 28, 4020–4025.
61. El Zein, R.; Kobaladze, M.; Vacharadze, K. Happiness and Well-Being as Seen by Children and Young People in Georgia.Educ.
Sci. Psychol. 2016, 42, 3–13.
62. De Souto Barreto, P . Direct and indirect relationships between physical activity and happiness levels among older adults: A
cross-sectional study. Aging Ment. Health 2014, 18, 861–868. [CrossRef]
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 65 of 68
63. Richards, J.; Jiang, X.; Kelly, P .; Chau, J.; Bauman, A.; Ding, D. Don’t worry, be happy: Cross-sectional associations between
physical activity and happiness in 15 European countries. BMC Public Health 2015, 15, 53. [CrossRef]
64. Lathia, N.; Sandstrom, G.M.; Mascolo, C.; Rentfrow, P .J. Happier people live more active lives: Using smartphones to link
happiness and physical activity. PLoS ONE 2017, 12, e0160589. [CrossRef]
65. Mehrdadi, A.; Sadeghian, S.; Direkvand-Moghadam, A.; Hashemian, A. Factors affecting happiness: A cross-sectional study in
the Iranian youth. J. Clin. Diagn. Res. JCDR 2016, 10, VC01. [CrossRef]
66. Devins, G.M.; Mandin, H.; Hons, R.B.; Burgess, E.D.; Klassen, J.; Taub, K.; Schorr, S.; Letourneau, P .K.; Buckle, S. Illness
intrusiveness and quality of life in end-stage renal disease: Comparison and stability across treatment modalities. Health Psychol.
1990, 9, 117–142. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
67. Efklides, A.; Kalaitzidou, M.; Chankin, G. Subjective quality of life in old age in Greece: The effect of demographic factors,
emotional state, and adaptation to aging. Eur. Psychol. 2003, 8, 178–191. [CrossRef]
68. Lucas, R.E. Long-term disability is associated with lasting changes in subjective well-being: Evidence from two nationally
representative longitudinal studies. J. Personal. Soc. Psychol. 2007, 92, 717–730. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
69. Panadero, S.; Guillén, A.I.; Vázquez, J.J. Happiness on the street: Overall Happiness among homeless people in Madrid (Spain).
Am. J. Orthopsychiatry 2015, 85, 324. [CrossRef]
70. Gerstorf, D.; Hülür, G.; Wagner, G.G.; Kunzmann, U.; Ram, N. Terminal change across facets of affective experience and domain
satisfaction: Commonalities, differences, and bittersweet emotions at the end of life. Dev. Psychol. 2018, 54, 2382–2402. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
71. Jamrozik, A.; Oraa Ali, M.; Sarwer, D.B.; Chatterjee, A. More than skin deep: Judgments of individuals with facial disﬁgurement.
Psychol. Aesthet. Creat. Arts 2019, 13, 117–129. [CrossRef]
72. Keng, S.H.; Wu, S.Y. Living happily ever after? The effect of Taiwan’s National Health Insurance on the happiness of the elderly.J.
Happiness Stud. 2014, 15, 783–808. [CrossRef]
73. Saki, N.; Yadollahpour, A.; Moniri, S.; Karimi, M.; Bayat, A.; Abshirini, H.; Nikakhlagh, S. Investigating the impacts of cochlear
implantation on the happiness and self-esteem of mothers of children with severe hearing loss. Int. J. Ment. Health Addict. 2017,
15, 288–294. [CrossRef]
74. Yadav, P .; Nunia, S.; Bansal, A.; Sureka, S.K.; Jena, R.; Ansari, M.S.; Srivastava, A. Multidimensional assessment of the quality of
life of children and problems of parents in Indian society after pediatric renal transplant: Beyond the conventional thoughts.
Pediatr. Transplant. 2017, 21, 130–141. [CrossRef]
75. Stasolla, F.; Caffò, A.O.; Perilli, V .; Boccasini, A.; Damiani, R.; D’Amico, F. Fostering locomotion ﬂuency of ﬁve adolescents with
Rett syndrome through a microswitch-based program: Contingency awareness and social rating. J. Dev. Phys. Disabil. 2018, 30,
239–258. [CrossRef]
76. Price, A.; Allen, K.; Ukoumunne, O.C.; Hayes, R.; Ford, T. Examining the psychological and social impact of relative age in
primary school children: A cross-sectional survey. Child Care Health Dev. 2017, 43, 891–898. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
77. Graham, C.; Pozuelo, J.R. Happiness, Stress, and Age: How the U-Curve Varies across People and Places. J. Popul. Econ. 2016, 30,
225–264. [CrossRef]
78. Galambos, N.L.; Fang, S.; Krahn, H.J.; Johnson, M.D.; Lachman, M.E. Up, not down: The age curve in happiness from early
adulthood to midlife in two longitudinal studies. Dev. Psychol. 2015, 51, 1664–1671. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
79. Haczy ´ nski, J. Happy and healthy Aging. The Analysis of the Relationship Between Age, Health, Education and Happiness on
International Social Survey Programme Data. Probl. Zarz ˛ adzania2016, 14, 24–39. [CrossRef]
80. Ogle, C.M.; Rubin, D.C.; Siegler, I.C. The impact of the developmental timing of trauma exposure on PTSD symptoms and
psychosocial functioning among older adults. Dev. Psychol. 2013, 49, 2191–2209. [CrossRef]
81. Simons, M.; Peeters, S.; Janssens, M.; Lataster, J.; Jacobs, N. Does age make a difference? Age as a moderator in the association
between time perspective and happiness. J. Happiness Stud. 2018, 19, 57–67. [CrossRef]
82. Edwards-Leeper, L.; Feldman, H.A.; Lash, B.R.; Shumer, D.E.; Tishelman, A.C. Psychological proﬁle of the ﬁrst sample of
transgender youth presenting for medical intervention in a US pediatric gender center. Psychol. Sex. Orientat. Gend. Divers. 2017,
4, 374. [CrossRef]
83. Chatters, L.M. Subjective well-being evaluations among older Black Americans. Psychol. Aging 1988, 3, 184–190. [CrossRef]
84. Morgan, J.; Robinson, O.; Thompson, T. Happiness and age in European adults: The moderating role of gross domestic product
per capita. Psychol. Aging 2015, 30, 544. [CrossRef]
85. Kamarova, S.; Chatzisarantis, N.L.; Hagger, M.S.; Lintunen, T.; Hassandra, M.; Papaioannou, A. Effects of achievement goals
on perceptions of competence in conditions of unfavorable social comparisons: The mastery goal advantage effect. Br. J. Educ.
Psychol. 2017, 87, 630–646. [CrossRef]
86. Teshale, S.M.; Lachman, M.E. Managing daily happiness: The relationship between selection, optimization, and compensation
strategies and well-being in adulthood. Psychol. Aging 2016, 31, 687. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
87. Diener, E.; Colvin, C.R.; Pavot, W.G.; Allman, A. The psychic costs of intense positive affect. J. Personal. Soc. Psychol. 1991, 61,
492–503. [CrossRef]
88. Park, H.I.; Monnot, M.J.; Jacob, A.C.; Wagner, S.H. Moderators of the relationship between person-job ﬁt and subjective well-being
among Asian employees. Int. J. Stress Manag. 2011, 18, 67. [CrossRef]
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 66 of 68
89. Jopp, D.; Rott, C. Adaptation in very old age: Exploring the role of resources, beliefs, and attitudes for centenarians’ happiness.
Psychol. Aging 2006, 21, 266–280. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
90. Xiang, Y.; Wu, H.; Chao, X.; Mo, L. Happiness, and social stratiﬁcation: A layered perspective on occupational status.Soc. Behav.
Personal. Int. J. 2016, 44, 1879–1888. [CrossRef]
91. Adelmann, P .K. Occupational complexity, control, and personal income: Their relation to psychological well-being in men and
women. J. Appl. Psychol. 1987, 72, 529. [CrossRef]
92. Warr, P . Self-employment, personal values, and varieties of happiness -unhappiness. J. Occup. Health Psychol. 2018, 23, 388.
[CrossRef]
93. Kirkcaldy, B.; Furnham, A.; Siefen, G. The relationship between health efﬁcacy, educational attainment, and well-being among 30
nations. Eur. Psychol. 2004, 9, 107–119. [CrossRef]
94. Kugbey, N.; Atefoe, E.A.; Anakwah, N.; Nyarko, K.; Atindanbila, S. Emotional intelligence and personal growth initiative effects
on subjective happiness among university students. J. Psychol. Afr. 2018, 28, 261–266. [CrossRef]
95. Bombari, D.; Schmid Mast, M.; Bachmann, M. Felt power explains the link between position power and experienced emotions.
Emotion 2017, 17, 55–66. [CrossRef]
96. Burrow, A.L.; Hill, P .L. Purpose as a form of identity capital for positive youth adjustment.Dev. Psychol. 2011, 47, 1196. [CrossRef]
97. Chadwick, A.E.; Zoccola, P .M.; Figueroa, W.S.; Rabideau, E.M. Communication and stress: Effects of Hope evocation and
rumination messages on emotional health rate, anxiety, and emotions after a stressor. Health Commun. 2016, 31, 1447–1459.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
98. Peltzer, K.; Pengpid, S.; Sodi, T.; Mantilla Toloza, S.C. Happiness and health behaviors among university students from 24 low,
middle- and high-income countries. J. Psychol. Afr. 2017, 27, 61–68. [CrossRef]
99. Chouhan, M.; Gupta, S. Effect of resilience on the well-being of Kashmiri pandit migrants. Indian J. Health Well-Being 2015, 6, 575.
100. Peltzer, K.; Pengpid, S. Dietary consumption and Happiness and depression among university students: A cross-national survey.
J. Psychol. Afr. 2017, 27, 372–377. [CrossRef]
101. Chiu, S.W.K.; Wong, K.T.W. The Happiness of Hong Kong youth from 2000 to 2014: Empirical evidence on the differential impact
of socioeconomic conditions on youth versus other age groups. J. Youth Stud. 2018, 21, 253–271. [CrossRef]
102. Pholphirul, P . Healthier and happier? The urban-rural divide in Thailand. J. Hum. Behav. Soc. Environ. 2014, 24, 973–985.
[CrossRef]
103. Sujarwoto, S.; Tampubolon, G. Decentralization and citizen happiness: A multilevel analysis of self-rated happiness in Indonesia.
J. Happiness Stud. 2015, 16, 455–475. [CrossRef]
104. Tang, T.L.P .; Sutarso, T.; Ansari, M.A.; Lim, V .K.G.; Teo, T.S.H.; Arias-Galicia, F.; Garber, I.E.; Chiu, R.K.K.; Charles-Pauvers, B.;
Luna-Arocas, R.; et al. Monetary intelligence and behavioral economics across 32 cultures: Good apples enjoy a good quality of
life in good barrels. J. Bus. Ethics 2018, 148, 893–917. [CrossRef]
105. Bennett, D.L.; Nikolaev, B. Economic freedom & Happiness inequality: Friends or foes? Contemp. Econ. Policy 2017, 35, 373–391.
106. Tumen, S.; Zeydanli, T. Is happiness contagious? Separating spillover externalities from the group-level social context.J. Happiness
Stud. 2015, 16, 719–744. [CrossRef]
107. Nelson, S.K.; Layous, K.; Cole, S.W.; Lyubomirsky, S. Do unto others or treat yourself? The effects of prosocial and self-focused
behavior on psychological ﬂourishing. Emotion 2016, 16, 850. [CrossRef]
108. Aknin, L.B.; Barrington-Leigh, C.P .; Dunn, E.W.; Helliwell, J.F.; Burns, J.; Biswas-Diener, R.; Biswas-Diener, R.; Kemeza, I.; Nyende,
P .; Ashton-James, C.E.; et al. Prosocial spending and well-being: Cross-cultural evidence for a psychological universal.J. Personal.
Soc. Psychol. 2013, 104, 635. [CrossRef]
109. Brailovskaia, J.; Margraf, J. Comparing Facebook users and Facebook non-users: Relationship between personality traits and
mental health factors—An exploratory study. PLoS ONE 2016, 11, e0166999. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
110. Delhey, J.; Dragolov, G. Happier together. Social cohesion and subjective well-being in Europe.Int. J. Psychol. 2016, 51, 163–176.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
111. Steptoe, A.; Leigh, E.S.; Kumari, M. Positive affect and distressed affect over the day in older people. Psychol. Aging 2011, 26, 956.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
112. Šeboková, G.; Uhláriková, J.; Halamová, M. Cognitive and social sources of adolescent well-being: Mediating role of school
belonging. Stud. Psychol. 2018, 60, 16–29. [CrossRef]
113. Antonucci, T.C.; Israel, B.A. Veridicality of social support: A comparison of principal and network members’ responses. J. Consult.
Clin. Psychol. 1986, 54, 432. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
114. Binion, G.; Zalewski, M. Maternal emotion dysregulation and the functional organization of preschoolers’ emotional expressions
and regulatory behaviors. Emotion 2018, 18, 386. [CrossRef]
115. Calvo, R.; Arcaya, M.; Baum, C.F.; Lowe, S.R.; Waters, M.C. Happily, ever after? Pre-and-post disaster determinants of Happiness
among survivors of Hurricane Katrina. J. Happiness Stud. 2015, 16, 427–442. [CrossRef]
116. Ho, H.C.; Mui, M.; Wan, A.; Ng, Y.L.; Stewart, S.M.; Yew, C.; Lam, T.H.; Chan, S.S. Happy Family Kitchen: A community-based
research for enhancing family communication and well-being in Hong Kong. J. Fam. Psychol. 2016, 30, 752. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
117. Ho, H.C.; Mui, M.; Wan, A.; Stewart, S.M.; Yew, C.; Lam, T.H.; Chan, S.S. Happy Family Kitchen: Behavioral outcomes of a brief
community-based family intervention in Hong Kong. J. Child Fam. Stud. 2017, 26, 2852–2864. [CrossRef]
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 67 of 68
118. Lambert, M.; Fleming, T.; Ameratunga, S.; Robinson, E.; Crengle, S.; Sheridan, J.; Denny, S.; Clark, T.; Merry, S. Looking on the
bright side: An assessment of factors associated with adolescents’ happiness. Adv. Ment. Health 2014, 12, 101–109. [CrossRef]
119. North, R.J.; Holahan, C.J.; Moos, R.H.; Cronkite, R.C. Family support, family income, and happiness: A 10-year perspective. J.
Fam. Psychol. 2008, 22, 475. [CrossRef]
120. Shams, K.; Kadow, A. Happiness across the life span: Evidence from urban Pakistan. FWU J. Soc. Sci. 2018, 12, 17–30.
121. Moreno, R.L.; Godoy-Izquierdo, D.; Vazquez Perez, M.L.; García, A.P .; Araque Serrano, F.; Godoy Garcia, J.F. Multidimensional
psychosocial proﬁles in the elderly and happiness: A cluster-based identiﬁcation.Aging Ment. Health 2014, 18, 489–503. [CrossRef]
122. Gudmundsdóttir, D.G.; Á sgeirsdóttir, B.B.; Huppert, F.A.; Sigfúsdóttir, I.D.; Valdimarsdóttir, U.A.; Hauksdóttir, A. How does the
economic crisis inﬂuence adolescents’ happiness? Population-based surveys in Iceland in 2000–2010. J. Happiness Stud. 2016, 17,
1219–1234. [CrossRef]
123. Rego, A. Do opportunities for learning and personal development lead to happiness? It depends on work-family conciliation. J.
Occup. Health Psychol. 2009, 14, 334. [CrossRef]
124. Aber, J.L.; Belsky, J.; Slade, A.; Crnic, K. Stability and change in mothers’ representations of their relationship with their toddlers.
Dev. Psychol. 1999, 35, 1038. [CrossRef]
125. Waldinger, R.J.; Schulz, M.S. What’s love got to do with it? Social functioning, perceived health, and daily happiness in married
octogenarians. Psychol. Aging 2010, 25, 422. [CrossRef]
126. Fu, R.; Noguchi, H. Does marriage make us healthier? Inter-country comparative evidence from China, Japan, and Korea. PLoS
ONE 2016, 11, e0148990. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
127. Monin, J.K.; Poulin, M.J.; Brown, S.L.; Langa, K.M. Spouses’ daily feelings of appreciation and self-reported well-being. Health
Psychol. 2017, 36, 1135. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
128. Birchler, G.R.; Webb, L.J. Discriminating interaction behaviors in happy and unhappy marriages.J. Consult. Clin. Psychol. 1977,
45, 494. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
129. Frutos, A.M.; Merrill, R.M. Viewing explicit sexual movies was related to less happiness in marriage. Sex. Cult. 2017, 21,
1062–1082. [CrossRef]
130. Forooshany, S.H.A.; Yazdkhasti, F.; Hajataghaie, S.S.; Esfahani, M.H.N. Infertile individuals’ marital relationship status, happiness,
and mental health: A causal Model. Int. J. Fertil. Steril. 2014, 8, 315.
131. Morokoff, P .J.; LoPiccolo, J. A comparative evaluation of minimal therapist contacts and 15-session treatment for female orgasmic
dysfunction. J. Consult. Clin. Psychol. 1986, 54, 294. [CrossRef]
132. Murphy, D.A.; Armistead, L.; Marelich, W.D.; Payne, D.L.; Herbeck, D.M. Pilot trial of a disclosure intervention for HIV+ mothers:
The TRACK program. J. Consult. Clin. Psychol. 2011, 79, 203–214. [CrossRef]
133. Baruch, G.K.; Barnett, R. Role quality, multiple role involvement, and psychological well-being in midlife women. J. Personal. Soc.
Psychol. 1986, 51, 578–585. [CrossRef]
134. Fujita, F.; Diener, E.; Sandvik, E. Gender differences in negative affect and well-being: The case for emotional intensity. J. Personal.
Soc. Psychol. 1991, 61, 427–434. [CrossRef]
135. Severy, L.J.; Waszak, C.; Badawi, I.; Kafaﬁ, L. The psychological well-being of women of Menouﬁya, Egypt: Relationships with
family planning. Am. Psychol. 2003, 58, 218. [CrossRef]
136. Abachizadeh, K.; Omidnia, S.; Hajebi, A.; Shekarriz-Foumani, R.; Mohseny, M. Measuring positive health of Iranians; Finding
from Iran social health survey (ISHS). Med. J. Islam. Repub. Iran 2018, 32, 63. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
137. Rocca, C.H.; Kimport, K.; Roberts, S.C.; Gould, H.; Neuhaus, J.; Foster, D.G. Decision rightness and emotional responses to
abortion in the United States: A longitudinal study. PLoS ONE 2015, 10, e0128832. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
138. Vázquez, J.J.; Panadero, S.; Rivas, E. Happiness among poor women victims of intimate partner violence in Nicaragua. Soc. Work
Public Health 2015, 30, 18–29. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
139. Haj-Yahia, M.M. The impact of wife abuse on marital relations is revealed by the second Palestinian National Survey on Violence
Against Women. J. Fam. Psychol. 2002, 16, 273. [CrossRef]
140. Jindal, Y.K.; Jain, M. Comparison between father and mother of differently abled children on Hope and happiness.Indian J. Health
Well-Being 2017, 8, 1187–1189.
141. Matsunaga, M.; Masuda, T.; Ishii, K.; Ohtsubo, Y.; Noguchi, Y.; Ochi, M.; Yamasue, H. Culture and cannabinoid receptor gene
polymorphism interact to inﬂuence the perception of happiness. PLoS ONE 2018, 13, e0209552. [CrossRef]
142. Biddle, N. Measuring and analyzing the well-being of Australia’s indigenous population. Soc. Indic. Res. 2014, 116, 713–729.
[CrossRef]
143. Wang, J.H. Happiness and Social Exclusion of Indigenous Peoples in Taiwan-A Social Sustainability Perspective. PLoS ONE 2015,
10, e0118305. [CrossRef]
144. Fleischmann, F.; Verkuyten, M. Dual identity among immigrants: Comparing different conceptualizations, their measurements,
and implications. Cult. Divers. Ethn. Minor. Psychol. 2016, 22, 151. [CrossRef]
145. Le, T.N.; Lai, M.H.; Wallen, J. Multiculturalism and subjective happiness as mediated by cultural and relational factors. Cult.
Divers. Ethn. Minor. Psychol. 2009, 15, 303. [CrossRef]
146. Herbst, C.M.; Lucio, J. Happy in the hood? The impact of residential segregation on self-reported happiness. J. Reg. Sci. 2016, 56,
494–521. [CrossRef]
Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2023, 20, 3306 68 of 68
147. Yue, X.D.; Liu, K.W.Y.; Jiang, F.; Hiranandani, N.A. Humor styles, self-esteem, and subjective happiness.Psychol. Rep. 2014, 115,
517–525. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
148. Rana, S.; Hariharan, M.; Nandinee, D.; Vincent, K. Forgiveness: A determinant of adolescents’ happiness. Indian J. Health
Well-Being 2014, 5, 1119–1123.
149. Addai, I.; Opoku-Agyeman, C.; Amanfu, S.K. Exploring predictors of subjective well-being in Ghana: A micro-level study. J.
Happiness Stud. 2014, 15, 869–890. [CrossRef]
150. Ngamaba, K.H. Happiness and life satisfaction in Rwanda. J. Psychol. Afr. 2016, 26, 407–414. [CrossRef]
151. Speed, D.; Fowler, K. Good for all? Hardly! Attending church does not beneﬁt religiously unafﬁliated.J. Relig. Health 2017, 56,
986–1002. [CrossRef]
152. Levin, J. Religious behavior, health, and well-being among Israeli Jews: Findings from the European Social Survey. Psychol. Relig.
Spiritual. 2013, 5, 272. [CrossRef]
153. Demirci, ˙I.; Ek¸ si, H. Keep calm and be happy: A mixed method study from character strengths to well-being.Educ. Sci. Theory
Pract. 2018, 18, 279–330.
154. Senasu, K.; Singhapakdi, A. Determinants of Happiness in Thailand: The moderating role of religiousness. J. Hum. Behav. Soc.
Environ. 2017, 27, 270–290. [CrossRef]
155. Al-Seheel, A.Y.; Noor, N.M. Effects of an Islamic-based gratitude strategy on Muslim students’ level of happiness.Ment. Health
Relig. Cult. 2016, 19, 686–703. [CrossRef]
156. Aftab, M.T.; Naqvi, A.A.; Al-Karasneh, A.F.; Ghori, S.A. Impact of religiosity on subjective life satisfaction and perceived academic
stress in undergraduate pharmacy students. J. Pharm. Bioallied Sci. 2018, 10, 192. [CrossRef]
157. Krause, N.; Pargament, K.I.; Hill, P .C.; Ironson, G. Assessing the role of race/ethnicity in the relationships among spiritual
struggles, health, and well-being. Am. J. Orthopsychiatry 2018, 88, 132. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
158. Abu-Raiya, H.; Pargament, K.I.; Krause, N.; Ironson, G. Robust links between religious/spiritual struggles, psychological distress,
and well-being in a national sample of American adults. Am. J. Orthopsychiatry 2015, 85, 565–575. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
159. Adjei, P .O.W.; Agyei, F.K. Biodiversity, environmental health, and human well-being: Analysis of linkages and pathways.Environ.
Dev. Sustain. 2015, 17, 1085–1102. [CrossRef]
160. Frash, R.E., Jr.; Blose, J.E.; Norman, W.C.; Patience, M. Healthy parks, happy people: An exploratory study of a county park
system. J. Park Recreat. Adm. 2016, 34, 84–102.
161. Li, C.H.; Tsai, M.C. Is the easy life always the happiest? Examining the association of convenience and well-being in Taiwan. Soc.
Indic. Res. 2014, 117, 673–688. [CrossRef]
162. Yao, Y.F.; Chen, K.M. Effects of horticulture therapy on nursing home older adults in southern Taiwan.Qual. Life Res. 2017, 26,
1007–1014. [CrossRef]
163. Lyu, J.; Mao, Z.; Hu, L. Cruise experience and its contribution to subjective well-being: A case of Chinese tourists. Int. J. Tour. Res.
2018, 20, 225–235. [CrossRef]
164. Mujcic, R.; Oswald, A.J. Evolution of well-being and happiness after increases in consumption of fruit and vegetables. Am. J.
Public Health 2016, 106, 1504–1510. [CrossRef]
165. Powell, L.; Chia, D.; McGreevy, P .; Podberscek, A.L.; Edwards, K.M.; Neilly, B.; Guastella, A.J.; Lee, V .; Stamatakis, E. Expectations
for dog ownership: Perceived physical, mental and psychosocial health consequences among prospective adopters. PLoS ONE
2018, 13, e0200276. [CrossRef]
166. Reyes, J.A.L. Exploring leisure time activities and sociodemographic indicators of subjective happiness and self-perceived health
among Filipinos. Austrian J. South-East Asian Stud. 2016, 9, 269–288.
167. Shams, K. Determinants of subjective well-being and poverty in rural Pakistan: A micro-level study. Soc. Indic. Res. 2014, 119,
1755–1773. [CrossRef]
168. Montani, F.; Staglianò, R. Innovation in Times of Pandemic: The Moderating Effect of Knowledge Sharing on the Relationship
between COVID-19 Induced Job Stress and Employee Innovation. In R&D Management; John Wiley & Sons: Hoboken, NJ,
USA, 2021. [CrossRef]
169. Tovstiga, N.; Tovstiga, G. COVID-19: A knowledge and learning perspective. Knowl. Manag. Res. Pract. 2021, 19, 427–432.
[CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
